movieId: 32
title: 12 Monkeys
year: 1995
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114746/
ratingValue: 
directors: Terry Gilliam
actors: Joseph Melito, Bruce Willis, Jon Seda, Michael Chance, Vernon Campbell, H. Michael Walls, Bob Adrian, Simon Jones, Carol Florence, Bill Raymond

synopsis:
James Cole (Bruce Willis) is a convicted criminal living in a grim post-apocalyptic future. In 1996-97, the Earth's surface was contaminated by a virus so deadly that it forced the surviving population to live underground.
In 2035, James Cole is a prisoner living in an underground compound beneath Philadelphia. Cole is sent to the surface periodically to collect biological samples to ascertain the condition of the planet. To earn a pardon, Cole allows scientists to send him on dangerous missions to the past to collect information on the virus, thought to be released by a terrorist organization known as the Army of the Twelve Monkeys. If possible, he is to obtain a pure sample of the original virus so a cure can be made. Cole is troubled with recurring dreams involving a chase and a shooting in an airport. On Cole's first trip, he arrives in Baltimore in 1990, not 1996 as planned. He is arrested for creating a public nuisance and doesn't have any ID on him. Cole is hospitalized in a mental institution on the diagnosis of Dr. Kathryn Railly (Madelline Stowe). Cole claims that he lives underground and says that he is supposed to be in 1996, which is the "past" for him. There, he encounters Jeffrey Goines (Brad Pitt), a fellow mental patient with fanatical animal rights and anti-consumerist leanings. Cole is interviewed by a panel of doctors and tries to explain that the virus outbreak has already happened and cannot be prevented. He says that the virus will be released by the Army of the 12 Monkeys in 1996, and by 1997 only 1% of the human population would survive. He says that he was sent to the wrong time and begs to make one telephone call to sort this all out.
Cole tries unsuccessfully to leave a voicemail on a number monitored by the scientists in the future. But the number was not being monitored in 1990. After a failed escape attempt, Cole is restrained and locked in a cell, but then disappears, returning to the future. Back in his own time, Cole is interviewed by the scientists, who play a distorted voice mail message which gives the location of the Army of the Twelve Monkeys and states that they are responsible for the virus. Cole says that he did not leave the voicemail as he was in the wrong year.
He is also shown photos of numerous people suspected of being involved with the virus, including Goines. The scientists offer Cole another chance to complete his mission and send him back in time. Cole briefly arrives at a battlefield during World War I, where he sees another prison inmate who was sent back in time, José. Cole is shot in the leg and gets transported to 1996. In 1996, Railly gives a lecture about the Cassandra complex (a psychological phenomenon that describes when someone's accurate predictions of a crisis are ignored or dismissed. The term comes from the Greek mythological figure Cassandra, who was given the gift of prophecy by Apollo but was cursed so that no one would believe her) to a group of scientists. At the post-lecture book-signing, Railly meets Dr. Peters, who tells her that apocalypse alarmists represent the sane vision while humanity's gradual destruction of the environment is the real lunacy. Cole arrives at the venue after seeing fliers publicizing it. Cole kidnaps Railly and sets out in search of Goines, learning that he is the founder of the Army of the Twelve Monkeys. When Cole confronts Goines, he denies any involvement with the group and says that in 1990, Cole originated the idea of wiping out humanity with a virus stolen from Goines' virologist father, Dr. Leland Goines. Cole is transported back to 2035, where he reaffirms to the scientists his commitment to his mission and asks to be sent back to complete it. After Cole disappears, Railly begins to doubt her diagnosis of Cole when she finds evidence that he is telling the truth, including a photograph from World War I in which Cole appears. Cole, on the other hand, convinces himself that his future experiences are hallucinations, and persuades the scientists to send him back again. Railly attempts to settle the question of Cole's sanity by leaving a voice mail on the number he provided, creating the message the scientists played prior to his second mission. They both now realize that the coming plague is real and make plans to enjoy the time they have left. They decide to depart for the Florida Keys before the start of the plague. Cole and Railly learn that the Army of the 12 Monkeys was not the source of the epidemic; the group's major act of protest is releasing animals from a zoo and placing Goines' father in an animal cage. At the airport, Cole leaves a last message telling the scientists they are on the wrong track following the Army of the Twelve Monkeys, and that he will not return. He is soon confronted by Jose (Jon Seda), an acquaintance from his own time, who gives Cole a handgun and instructions to complete his mission.
Railly spots Dr. Peters (David Morse) at the airport and recognizes him from a newspaper as an assistant of Goines' father. Peters is about to embark on a tour of several cities that matches the viral outbreaks chronologically and geographically. Peters is about to embark on a tour of several cities around the world, which matches the sequence (memorized by Cole) of viral outbreaks. Cole, while fighting through security, is fatally shot as he tries to stop Peters. As Cole dies in Railly's arms, she makes eye contact with a small boy - the young James Cole witnessing his own death; the scene that will replay in his dreams for years to come. Peters, aboard the plane with the virus, sits down next to Jones (Carol Florence), one of the scientists from the future, who comments that her job is "insurance". The young Cole watches a plane take off from the ground outside the airport.