movieId: 6383
title: 2 Fast 2 Furious
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0322259/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Singleton
actors: Paul Walker, Tyrese Gibson, Eva Mendes, Cole Hauser, Ludacris, Thom Barry, James Remar, Devon Aoki, Amaury Nolasco, Michael Ealy

synopsis:
After allowing fugitive Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) to evade arrest in the first film, former LAPD officer Brian O'Conner (Paul Walker) finds himself on the run from LAPD and leaves Los Angeles, California to start a new life. He travels along the U.S., racing against the locals using a silver Nissan Skyline GT-R R34 and the driving skills he learned as a member of Toretto's now disbanded crew, earning money for the trip. After traveling for few days, he arrives in Miami, Florida. There, he makes new friends with Tej Parker (Ludacris), an ex-street racer and organizer who leads a top racing garage and is the man-to-know in Miami, and Jimmy (Jin Auyeung), a well-known car tuner who works with Tej, as well as Suki (Devon Aoki), also a street racer, and now lives in a small cot near his garage. Soon, he gets reputation as one of the best drivers in the city. The movie starts with Suki, Slap Jack, and Orange Julius on the street race strip with Tej, who hears that the fourth racer won't be joining them. They try to convince Tej to race with them, but he agrees with them to get the driver on his own. He calls Brian to the race, and Brian's reputation is seen as he easily wins the crowd. As the race starts, Brian finds himself behind Slap-Jack, and Suki behind Julius. Brian tries to overtake him few times, but he always manages to keep the position. Brian passes him and jumps over the bridge set up by Jimmy, but Slap-Jack loses control and collides into a commercial sign. Meanwhile, Suki overtakes Julius at the last corner and manages to jump over, accidentally rupturing her front bumper, while Julius stops. Brian wins, earning $15,000 for the race. Suddenly, Miami P.D. arrives on the scene and after a small chase, Brian is caught by U.S. Customs agents after his car is disabled by a grappling hook-shaped ESD (Electronic System Disabler) deployed by agent Markham (James Remar). Upon his arrest, Brian is offered a deal by FBI agent Bilkins (Thom Barry) to take part in a joint Customs/FBI operation in exchange for his criminal record being wiped clean. The operation involves his street racing background but seeing that neither Customs nor the FBI have a convincing racer to be his partner, Brian tells Bilkins he will select a partner of his own. Brian and Bilkins travel to Barstow, California, to meet up with Roman Pearce (Tyrese Gibson), a former good friend of Brian who had served 3 years for car theft and is on house arrest, living in his trailer on the local track, racing in the Destruction Derby events. Brian reconciles with Roman, fighting on the track. After Bilkins convinces Roman that he will get his crimes pardoned ankle monitor removed, Roman accepts. They return to Miami, where they are briefed on their mission - which is to go undercover as street racers and participate in a money laundering run for Carter Verone (Cole Hauser), a ruthless Argentinian drug lord. They are assisted by Monica Fuentes (Eva Mendes), a female undercover U.S. Customs agent who liaisons as Carter's love interest and lives on his mansion. For their mission, Brian and Roman are issued two modified cars - a purple Mitsubishi Eclipse 2G Spyder Spyder (Roman's car), and a yellow Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution VII (Brian's car). The duo participate in an audition race across Miami to recover a package inside an impounded Ferrari 360 Spider and deliver it to Verone, not knowing that their cars are equipped with tracking devices that give Markham's squad their locations. After a wild chase with other audition drivers on the Miami highways, and upon arriving at the site of the Ferrari and acquiring the package, they are cornered by Markham, who thinks they are fleeing from the mission. Roman opens fire at Markham before the duo make their escape and head for Verone's mansion. After being hired by Verone as his drivers, the duo then head to Tej's garage, where they learn about the tracking devices in their cars and that they are also being followed by Verone's henchmen Enrique (Mo Gallini) and Roberto (Roberto Sanchez). After Roman creates a diversion to escape, they arrive at a Customs/FBI hideout, where Roman confronts Markham over the latter's interference with the mission nearly blowing their cover. After the situation is cooled down, Brian tells Bilkins and Markham that Verone plans to smuggle the drug money into his private jet and fly off, but also suspects something wrong with Monica's role in the mission. The duo talks that Markham will probably blow their cover-up job, and that they need some "exit strategy". They agree that they need at least two more cars. Brian makes the deal with Tej and he issues a challenge to racers Korpi (John Cenatiempo) and Darden (Eric Etebari) - two other drivers from the audition race - for pink slips in a tag-team relay race. Darden drives 1970 Dodge Challenger R/T HEMI and Korpi drives a 1969 Chevrolet Yenko Camaro. Despite Roman losing, Brian manages to edge out Korpi and they win the race, earning their cars. That night, Brian and Roman meet up with Verone at his night club, where Verone tortures detective Whitworth (Mark Boone, Jr.) with a rat into giving him a 15-minute window to keep the police away from their laundering run. They report this back to their superiors the next morning, but Brian suspects that this mission will go out of hand due to Markham's dislike of the pair, along with information secretly told by Monica that the drop-off point is at a secluded airstrip and Verone is to have the duo executed after the run. As a solution to these problems, Brian and Roman have Tej and his crew modify the muscle cars and have him get all the street racers ready for the next day. On the day of the mission, Brian and Roman begin transporting Duffel bags of Verone's money with Enrique and Roberto riding along. Before the 15-minute window is set, Whitworth decides to call in the police to move in for the arrest, resulting in a high-speed chase across the city. Brian and Roman lead the police to a warehouse, where a scramble by dozens of street racers disorient the police. Following the scramble, police manage to pull over the Eclipse and the EVO, only to find out that they were driven by Tej and Suki respectively. It is revealed that Brian drove the Camaro and Roman switched to his Challenger. Brian approaches the destination point, and Roman got rid of Roberto by using the same improvised ejector seat powered by Nitrous oxide. At the airfield, Customs agents have Verone's plane and convoy surrounded, only to discover they were duped into a decoy maneuver while Verone is at a boat yard several miles away, and Brian blows his cover to Enrique when he recalls that there is no airstrip where they are heading. As he knew Monica was an undercover agent, he gave her the wrong information on the destination point. When Brian arrives at the intended drop-off point, Verone and Brian met, and he leaves with Monica as Enrique prepares to shoot him. However, Roman shows up and crashes his Challenger into the side of one of the Lincoln Continentals Verone was using, and Brian uses the moment and attacks Enrique. Roman throws Enrique out of the Camaro and knocks him out. Meanwhile, Verone makes his escape aboard his private yacht. Brian and Roman get into the Camaro driving it off a ramp and crashing it into the top of Verone's yacht. However, Roman breaks his arm, and the vehicle is stuck. Brian manages to get Enrique's pistol and shoots Verone in the shoulder just as he was about to shoot them with his shotgun. Verone tries to grab the shotgun, but Monica takes it first, ending the pursuit and the mission. After Customs arrive, they arrest Verone, taking the Duffel bags of money, including the three bags they missed in the trunk of the Challenger. With their crimes pardoned, Brian and Roman ponder on what to do next as Brian mentions starting a garage. Roman asks how they would afford that, and Brian reveals that he took some of the money as Roman also reveals that his pockets aren't empty, having taken some money for himself.