movieId: 7080
title: 42nd Street
year: 1933
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0024034/
ratingValue: 
directors: Lloyd Bacon
actors: Warner Baxter, Bebe Daniels, George Brent, Ruby Keeler, Guy Kibbee, Una Merkel, Ginger Rogers, Ned Sparks, Dick Powell, Allen Jenkins

synopsis:
In New York City at the height of the Great Depression, stage director Julian Marsh (Warner Baxter) has gone completely broke due to low theater attendance. He jumps at the opportunity to direct the musical comedy 'Pretty Lady' by Jones and Barry. Since Marsh is very sick (presumably from cancer) he counts on the success of the show to take care of him for the rest of his short life. Tryouts take place and two people that win the lead roles are Dorothy Brock (Bebe Daniels), the personal choice of Abner Dillon (Guy Kibbee) the show's producer, and Billy Lawler (Dick Powell), a well-known juvenile lead actor. Billy takes a fancy to the young Peggy Sawyer (Ruby Keeler), who has never acted in a major Broadway theatrical production. Billy helps Peggy relax during the chorus tryouts when most of the other chorines are being unfriendly to her. Two chorines are friendly towards Peggy, whom are 'Anytime Ann (Ginger Rogers) and Lorraine Fleming (Una Merkel) who is the girlfriend of Andy Lee (George E. Stone) the choreographer. All three women win parts in the chorus. When director Marsh finds out that Dorothy as been two-timing Abner and is still sweet on her boyfriend and former partner Pat Denning (George Brent), he sends some men to strong-arm Pat lest Abner find out and withdraw from backing the show. But Pat and Dorothy have decided to split up anyway. Pat wants to make his own success and goes to Philadelphia to work in a stock company. They hope to get back together someday. After five weeks of rehearsals, the company goes to Philadelphia where the play will open on a theater on South Broad Street. Dorothy sees Pat with Peggy and though they are just friends, she becomes very jealous. At a party held the night before the opening, Dorothy gets a little too drunk in which she kicks Abner out of her hotel room. Abner is offended where he tells Marsh that he wants to withdraw his backing. Marsh convinces him to remain with the show if Dorothy will apologize to him. Dorothy phones Pat and tells him to come over to her room. He arrives a short while later at her hotel room as expected and tries to console the drunk woman. Outside the door, Peggy overhears the writers tell each other the Marsh will once again try to get Pat out of the way. Peggy then goes to Dorothy's room to tell Pat what she heard. Dorothy gets jealous and loses control of herself in which she falls sideways and twists her ankle. Marsh arrives a minute later to find out that he has lost his leading lady the night before the play. The next day, Abner announces that he has a new leading lady: 'Anytime Ann'. Marsh is willing to use her, but Ann tells him that there is only one girl who can carry the show: Peggy. Marsh had never noticed Peggy before during the tryouts and rehearsals, but he agrees to use her. For the next five hours, Marsh works with Peggy on her acting, singing and dancing. She improves steadily. Before Peggy makes her debut she gets encouragement from Bill, and even Dorothy (now hobbling on two crutches), who says that she will marry Pat. Marsh even gives Peggy some encouragement by telling her: "Sawyer, you're going out a youngster, but you've got to come back a star!" The elaborate play with several large musical production numbers makes it debut. For the final 20 minutes, the cast performs each musical number flawlessly, with Peggy singing and dancing to the show-stopping '42nd Street'. In the final scene, after the play is over, the exhausted Marsh is seen sitting on the steps of the back exit of the theater in an alley. He overhears patrons saying, "Marsh will probably say he discovered her. Some guys get all the breaks."