movieId: 7293
title: 50 First Dates
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0343660/
ratingValue: 
directors: Peter Segal
actors: Adam Sandler, Drew Barrymore, Rob Schneider, Sean Astin, Lusia Strus, Dan Aykroyd, Amy Hill, Allen Covert, Blake Clark, Maya Rudolph

synopsis:
Henry Roth (Adam Sandler) is a veterinarian at Sea Life Park on the island of Oahu, Hawaii. He has a reputation of wooing female tourists, a strategy he employs to avoid becoming involved in a serious relationship. His closest friends are Ula (Rob Schneider), a marijuana-smoking Islander; Alexa (Lusia Strus), his androgynous German assistant; Willy, his pet African penguin; and Jocko, a walrus that lives at the park.
Henry has been saving up to go on a big boat trip to Alaska (Bristol Bay) and hence does not want any attachments to the Island. Henry specializes in Walruses and his boat trip is to further his research on Walruses (In their unspoiled habitat) including what they do under the water, where they spend more than two thirds of their life. One day while sailing, his boat (named the "Sea Serpent") is damaged when the mast breaks and destroys the wheel. Henry anchors the boat and takes a rubber dingy to the nearest shoreline.
He stops at the Hukilau Cafe until his boat can be towed back to port, and meets a young woman named Lucy Whitmore (Drew Barrymore). Henry is instantly smitten with Lucy.
Believing her to be a local, he avoids introducing himself, but the next day he returns. He and Lucy hit it off and she asks him to meet her again the next morning. Lucy says that her father Marlin and brother Doug are fishermen and go out to the sea for months at a time. However, when Henry goes back to the cafe the following day, Lucy has no memory of their previous meeting. The restaurant owner Sue (Amy Hill) (and her chef and husband Nick (Pomaika'I Brown)) explains to Henry that, the previous year, Lucy and her father Marlin (Blake Clark) had a serious car accident on his birthday that left her with Anterograde amnesia, which inhibits her ability to form new memories. As such, she wakes up every morning thinking it is Sunday, October 13, of a year ago. To spare Lucy the heartbreak of reliving the accident every day, Marlin and Doug (Sean Astin), Lucy's lisping steroid-addicted brother, re-enact Marlin's birthday by following a script, including putting out the Sunday newspaper, refilling Lucy's shampoo bottles, re-watching the same Minnesota Vikings game, and re-watching the film The Sixth Sense. Despite Sue's warning, Henry invites Lucy to have breakfast with him. Eventually she does, but it ends poorly when he unintentionally hurts her feelings. He follows her home to apologize, where Marlin and Doug instruct him to leave her alone. Henry begins concocting ways to run into Lucy on the following days.
Eventually Marlin and Doug figure this out and tell Henry that Lucy sings The Beach Boys' "Wouldn't It Be Nice" only on days when she has met him, the first major change in her routine since the accident. Thinking that Lucy may be making progress with her condition, they agree to let Henry keep seeing her. One day, a police officer writes Lucy a ticket for her expired plates. She attempts to argue that they are not yet expired, but realizes it is not October 13 as she thought. Distraught and confused, Lucy rushes home; Marlin and Doug admit their ruse.
Henry comes up with an idea to make a video for Lucy that explains her accident and their relationship. Although she is upset each time she is told about her accident and memory loss, Henry believes that she is more upset about realizing her life has been a lie every day. Henry, Marlin, and Doug show Lucy the tape every morning and help her spend her days by picking up where the tape says she left off. She spends more time with Henry and goes to see some of her old friends. One day, Lucy overhears Henry talking of his decision not to take a year-long sailing trip to Bristol Bay to study walruses, something he has been planning for the past 10 years, in favor of spending that year trying to help Lucy and make her fall in love with him every day. So, she tells Henry that, for his sake, she will erase him completely from her life. Henry reluctantly helps Lucy destroy her journal entries of their relationship. A few weeks later, Henry is preparing to leave for his trip. Before he departs, Marlin tells him that Lucy is now living at the brain injury institute where she was first diagnosed and teaching an art class there. He also tells him that she sings. As he is sailing away, Henry remembers that Marlin once told him that Lucy only sings after she meets him. Concluding that she remembers him, he rushes to the institute and asks her if Lucy knows who he is. She says she does not. Lucy then shows him dozens of pictures she has painted of him, saying that although she has no idea who he is, she dreams about him almost every night. Sometime later, Lucy wakes up and plays a video tape marked "Good Morning Lucy." It again informs her of her accident but ends with her and Henry's wedding. On the tape, Henry says to put a jacket on and come have breakfast when she is ready. Lucy then sees that she is on Henry's boat, which finally made it to Alaska. She goes up on deck and meets Marlin, Henry, and their young daughter, Nicole.