movieId: 239
title: A Goofy Movie
year: 1995
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0113198/
ratingValue: 
directors: Kevin Lima
actors: Bill Farmer, Jason Marsden, Jim Cummings, Kellie Martin, Rob Paulsen, Wallace Shawn, Jenna von Oÿ, Frank Welker, Kevin Lima, Florence Stanley

synopsis:
Fourteen-year-old Max Goof (Jason Marsden) lives with his single father Goofy (Bill Farmer) in New York City, though the two have a tense relationship. Max Goof is an average teenager who pines after his classmate Roxanne, worships the pop star Powerline. Max fears Goofy embarrassing him in front of Roxanne and has nightmares about the same. In the morning, Goofy uses the vacuum cleaner and accidentally destroys Max's Powerline cardboard cutout. Max walks down the street and his dad goofy, gives him a brown bag and kisses him. Max is irritated as he was in a hurry to get to school and Goofy wanted him to clean up his room before leaving.
Goofy works as a photographer at a photo studio, with his colleague Pete. Pete tells Goofy how he is taking his son PJ on a camping trip as a way of bonding with him. Pete says that if the kid does not spend time with family, it could mean that they are running around in some gang. On the last day of school before summer vacation, Max shows up at the top of a bleachers, and he trips and falls on the bleachers. His crush Roxanne is standing there. He gets embarrassed when he involuntarily says "Hyuvk!" out of habit and runs away to hide from her.
Max has been ridiculed for the whole of his school life, but this is the day when he was going to change everything. Max and his best friends P.J. (Rob Paulsen) and Robert "Bobby" Zimmeruski (Pauly Shore) hijack the auditorium stage in the middle of Principal Mazur's (Wallace Shawn) speech, creating a small concert where Max performs, while costumed as the pop singer Powerline. Mazur eventually catches Max. The performance succeeds in making Max a school celebrity and impressing his love interest, Roxanne (Kellie Martin). But he, P.J. and Bobby are sent to Mazur's office. While waiting for Mazur, Roxanne arrives and speaks with Max and agrees to go with him to a party at the house of Stacey, the class valedictorian, where Powerline's concert will be aired live on pay per view TV. Mazur calls Goofy and forewarns him that Max's actions may result in facing potential juvenile delinquency. Goofy desperately decides to take Max on a fishing trip to Lake Destiny, Idaho, following a map route he and his father took years ago, and the two go into his AMC Pacer station wagon. Max is distraught that the trip could take several weeks.
However, he is oblivious to what Max is planning to do with Roxanne. Max stops by Roxanne's house to call off their date and says that he has no choice but to go with his father on this camping trip. When Roxanne says she will just have to go with someone else, Max instead fabricates a story about his father knowing Powerline. He tells her he will be on stage at the concert and will wave at her. Roxanne gives Max a peck on the cheeks, making his day. Goofy plans his own trip (against Max's wishes), with initially disastrous results. Goofy tries to use a camcorder on Max and sees Max is bored and he pulls out a list of things he did with his dad. He turns on a cassette but max switches it off and puts on heavy metal. Goofy and Max get into a tussle over control of the radio/cassette player, until the cassette breaks, and Max gets annoyed that there is no music. Max hurts his father's feelings after his father humiliates him at an opossum-based theme park. They go to see an Animatronic possum show and the Possum's start singing to 'Lester's Possum Park'. They go outside and a giant possum (a person wearing a possum costume) tries to hug Max but Max slaps the possum in the face so that his head goes backward, and a bunch of little kids pounce on him. After, Goofy manages to embarrass Max in front of a crowd of people (when he goes to get his picture taken in a possum hat) and gets him a possum hat as well. Goofy then engages Max in a possum dance, and they both are made fun of by the onlookers. Back in the car, Max yells at Goofy for making him do things that he does not like. This makes Goofy sad, and they drive away. The next day, Max is looking at the water and sees Roxane in a lake of water but Goofy splashes it and asks him how he is, Max slowly walks away. While camping, Pete (Jim Cummings) (P.J.'s dad) and P.J. join them in a huge RV. P.J. informs Max of how all their peers back home anticipate seeing him onstage at the Powerline concert. Following Pete's advice to keep Max under control, Goofy takes his son fishing and performs the Perfect Cast fishing technique, luring Bigfoot to their camp.
Pete and P.J. flee, leaving Goofy and Max to spend the night in the car with Bigfoot outside. They cannot drive away as Bigfoot had the keys. At night, while Goofy is still asleep, Max alters the map route to Los Angeles, where the concert is to be held. The next morning, Goofy decides to make Max the navigator of the trip. The two go to several locations that satisfy both of them such as water skiing, roller coasters, fast food, monster truck derby, World's largest house of Yarn, a mime show, bat caverns, baseball game, and changing numerous flat tires on the road. They stop by a motel where they meet Pete and P.J. again. Pete is astounded to see that Max and Goofy are now bonding and having fun with each other. Pete wanted Goofy to enforce discipline on Max and to keep him under his thumb. When Pete overhears a conversation between Max and P.J., he tells Goofy that Max has tricked him in traveling to Los Angeles. Goofy refuses to believe Pete when he says that Max is a bad kid. Pete asks Goofy to check the map himself, but Goofy says that he trusts Max. Goofy says that Max loves him, and that is more than enough for him. Pete says that PJ respects him and that's how it should be. The next day, Goofy doesn't say anything to Max as they drive. Goofy and Max come to a junction: One leading to Idaho, the other to California. Goofy still believes Max will do the right thing, but Max chooses the route to California, making Goofy stop the car at the Grand Canyon and storm off in anger. With the brake loose, the car drives off on its own. Goofy and Max chase after it and end up at the Colorado river. Goofy reveals that no matter how old Max gets, he will always be his son and the two reconcile with each other. Realizing Max had promised to Roxanne to go to the concert, Goofy decides to take him to Los Angeles. The two nearly plummet down a waterfall to their deaths, but Max fortunately saves Goofy, using the Perfect Cast technique. Goofy and Max get to Los Angeles, and they end up onstage and dance with Powerline, watched by Pete, P.J. and Roxanne on separate televisions. Goofy and Max later return to Roxanne's house in their damaged car. Max tells the truth to Roxanne, though she accepts it and admits she always had feelings for him, ever since he first said, "Ahyuck!". Thus, a relationship starts between them. Goofy's car suddenly explodes due to its damaged sustained at the waterfall after it fell, but he safely falls through the porch roof of Roxanne's house, and he is introduced to her by Max.