movieId: 7087
title: A Passage to India
year: 1984
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0087892/
ratingValue: 
directors: David Lean
actors: Judy Davis, Victor Banerjee, Peggy Ashcroft, James Fox, Alec Guinness, Nigel Havers, Richard Wilson, Antonia Pemberton, Michael Culver, Art Malik

synopsis:
Adela Quested (Judy Davis) is sailing from England to British Raj India with Mrs. Moore (Peggy Ashcroft), the mother of her intended bridegroom, Ronny Heaslop (Nigel Havers), Mrs. Moore's son from her first marriage. Heaslop is the City magistrate in Chandrapore, and Adela intends to see if she can make a go of it.
Mrs Moore is scheduled to return from India after a few weeks, and Adela intends to stay on and has an open-ended ticket with the cruise liner. The ship arrives in Bombay, from where the ladies have to travel another 1000 miles over land to reach Chandrapore. Collector Turton (Richard Wilson) is Ronny's boss in Chandrapore and is travelling on the same train, with his wife Mrs Turton (Antonia Pemberton). The ladies are disappointed to find that the British community is very much separated from the Indian population and culture with a growing Indian independence movement in the 1920s. Anthony (Ashok Mandanna) is Ronny's butler. Major McBryde (Michael Culver) is in charge of law and order in the town.
Turton makes attempts to help Adela and Mrs Moore meet Indians in social settings, but Adela is ashamed to see that the Indians are not treated well by the British. Indians are seen with distrust and disdain. Mrs Moore also admonishes Ronny and says that she cannot understand this disdain for the fellow human. Mrs. Moore meets by chance another Indian local, Dr Aziz Ahmed (Victor Banerjee) at the local mosque, which she visits at night and happens to find Aziz there. Aziz is a widower who is surprised by her kindness and lack of prejudice.
Ali (Art Malik) and Aziz are good friends. Advocate Hamidullah (Saeed Jaffrey) and Begum Hamidullah (Dina Pathak) are also very close to Aziz. Adela and Mrs Moore are encouraged when the local school superintendent Richard Fielding (James Fox), introduces them to the eccentric elderly Hindu Brahmin scholar Professor Narayan Godbole (Alec Guinness). Fielding also formally introduces Aziz to the ladies. Aziz offers to host an excursion to the local Marabar Caves. Godbole tries to discourage the ladies by saying that the caves are dark and empty.
Ronny reacts very strongly to Adela meeting Indians, prompting her to later tell Ronny that she has decided that she will not marry him.
Meanwhile Aziz is in a state of panic. Hamidullah tells Aziz that he will have to arrange transport from the station to the hills, furniture for the English ladies to sit, food for the English and for Professor Godbole (who eats only fruits), and alcohol. All of this will mean he will have to hire servants. To clear her head, Adela takes a bike ride and comes upon some abandoned ruins. She finds ancient Indian art celebrating carnal love between man and woman. She finds the images savage and is also attacked by monkeys. She returns home to embrace Ronny and tells him that she was wrong to reject him. Ronny and Adela get engaged. On the day of the expedition, Fielding and Godbole miss the train when they arrive late due to Godbole's prayers. After the train, Aziz had arranged elephants to transport Mrs Moore and Adela to the hills. Just outside the caves, Aziz sets up the furniture and serves port wine to the ladies.
The initial exploration of the caves shows that the size of the party should be limited when Mrs. Moore suffers from claustrophobia and the noise from the large entourage echoes exponentially inside the caves. Mrs. Moore encourages Adela and Aziz to continue their exploration of the caves alone with just one guide. They reach the caves at a higher elevation some distance from the group and, before entering, Aziz steps away to smoke a cigarette. He returns to find Adela has disappeared. Shortly afterwards, he sees her running headlong down the hill, disheveled. She is picked up by the doctor Major Callendar's (Clive Swift) wife, Mrs. Callendar (Ann Firbank) who had arrived at the caves with Fielding, and taken to the Callendars' home. Adela is bleeding and delirious. Dr. Callendar medicates Adela with a hypodermic syringe. Upon his return to Chandrapore, Dr. Aziz is accused of attempting to sexually assault Adela inside the caves, is jailed awaiting trial, and the incident exposes clear fault-lines between the Indians and the British. It is reported that Adela herself accused Aziz of sexual assault.
Ali and Hamidullah volunteer to be Aziz's legal counsel. Adela is kept sedated as her entire body is riddled with cactus spines when she ran into while running down the hill.
Godbole tells Fielding that no matter what he does, the outcome of the trial against Aziz is already decided.
Mrs. Moore firmly believes Aziz did not commit any offense and departs India for England. Seemingly enjoying her passage at sea, Mrs. Moore suddenly suffers an apparent heart attack and dies. Hamidullah and Ali bring in noted advocate Amrit Rao (Roshan Seth) from Calcutta to defend Aziz.
Fielding declares under pressure to Turton that he will resign from the college if Aziz is found guilty. In court, Adela is questioned by the prosecutor, who is stunned when Adela replies that Dr. Aziz never entered the cave, where the supposed attempt took place. It becomes clear to Adela that her earlier signed accusation of attempted sexual assault was false, so she recants. Aziz is freed and celebrated for his innocence.
Adela is abandoned to her own devices by the British, except for Mr. Fielding, who assists her to safety at the college. She plans to return to England at the earliest moment.
Hamidullah plans to sue Adela for damages of Rs 20,000 but Fielding talks Aziz out of it. Aziz rids himself of his western associations and vows to find a new job in another Indian state; he opens a clinic in the lake area near Srinagar, Kashmir. Meanwhile, through Adela, Fielding has married Stella Moore (Sandra Hotz), Mrs. Moore's daughter from her second marriage. Fielding brings Stella to meet Aziz in Kashmir.
Aziz eventually reconciles with Fielding, and Aziz writes to Adela asking her to forgive him for taking so long to come to appreciate the courage she exercised when she withdrew her accusation in court.