movieId: 818
title: A Very Brady Sequel
year: 1996
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118073/
ratingValue: 
directors: Arlene Sanford
actors: Shelley Long, Gary Cole, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Christine Taylor, Paul Sutera, Jennifer Elise Cox, Jesse Lee Soffer, Olivia Hack, Henriette Mantel, Tim Matheson

synopsis:
One evening, a man claiming to be Carol's (Shelley Long) long-lost first husband, Roy Martin (Tim Matheson), shows up at the suburban Brady residence. The Bradys believe his story about suffering from amnesia and having plastic surgery after being injured. Mike (Gary Cole) has been planning a second wedding/renewal of vows for himself and Carol, for an anniversary present without her knowing, although Roy's arrival throws a monkey wrench into things. Throughout Roy's stay, he is openly hostile to them, his sarcasm and insults completely going over their heads. Mike had 3 boys before marrying Carol and Carol had 3 girls before marrying Mike. Thats the Brady family. Alice is the house maid.
Marcia is the eldest and is the sexiest, with many boys after her. Jan is geeky and has no boyfriends. Roy is heard talking to someone on the phone and it seems like he is looking for a horse shaped artifact. This artifact was sent by Alice for cleaning after the girls dropped grape juice on it. Peter (Paul Sutera), who is trying to decide what career path to choose, starts idolizing and emulating Roy, which frequently gets him in trouble at the architect firm where Mike works (Mike Takes Peter to work for his internship, but Peter hits Mike's boss as he is more interested in playing with Roy's nun chucks). Peter later mentions Roy talking about "the big house", and Mike learns it means prison, making him suspicious.
Roy advises Jan to cook up an imaginary boyfriend to impress Marcia. But Marcia doesn't believe her. Roy learns from Cindy and Bobby that the horse artifact is at the antique store for cleaning and restorations. Roy is thwarted when Kids take him for a day out, just when Alice brings the artifact back from the cleaners. But then Carol sends the horse to her local charity auction. Roy plans to bid on it as it is valued at $50.
Meanwhile Alice is upset that Roy didn't like her meatloaf. So, she finds some mushrooms in Roy's room and mixes them in his dinner that night. Those were magic mushrooms and Roy trips up. He barely gets to the auction the next day but is beaten by a wealthy lady (who had seen a similar artifact at an auction somewhere) who bids $10K on it. Greg (Christopher Daniel Barnes) and Marcia (Christine Taylor) both want to move out of their shared rooms and into the attic. But when neither wants to back down, they have to share the attic together. When Roy's arrival suggests that Carol and Mike might not be married, Greg and Marcia believe that they are technically not related. This leads them to realize they are in love with each other but try to hide it from one another throughout their time together. Bobby (Jesse Lee) and Cindy (Olivia Hack) start a "Detective Agency" hunting down her missing doll and upon finding it, they stumble upon a photo revealing Roy's true intention. He is actually a con man named Trevor Thomas (who used to be the real Roy's assistant) and is there to steal a familiar horse statue that is actually a $20 million-dollar ancient artifact.
The kids reveal to Carol his plans and confront Trevor (who had stolen the horse artifact from the wealthy woman at the auction), who, in turn, kidnaps Carol and takes her hostage to Hawaii, where he plans to sell to artifact to Dr. Whitehead (John Hillerman), a buyer in Hawaii. He also ties up the kids and Alice (Henriette Mantel) to keep them from interfering. Mike, who's now fully aware of Trevor's deception, having gone to the police with his suspicions, frees them, and the family flies to Hawaii to save Carol and foil Trevor's plans. In Hawaii, Carol escapes from Trevor's clutches, and manages to find her way to Dr. Whitehead's estate before Trevor gets there. It turns out, Trevor was responsible for the boating accident (he cut the fuel pipes which led to the explosion on the boat) that led to the disappearance of Dr. Whitehead's son Gilligan and Carol's first husband, a professor. Carol's first husband had discovered the artifact in Karabi (Thailand) and sent it ahead by courier to her, as he felt it would be safer with her, while they followed on boat. in Dr. Whitehead's words "The Minnow is lost" (as Trevor was responsible for his son's death), and he refuses to pay Trevor for the horse (when Carol insists that Trevor stole it from the family). Trevor attempts to hold Dr. Whitehead and Carol at gunpoint for payment, but Mike and the family arrive just in time to intervene (Mike found the place from which Trevor rented a jeep to visit Dr Whitehead), and, after a brief scuffle between the two men, in which Mike quickly gains the upper hand, Trevor is arrested and taken to jail. Dr. Whitehead offers to pay the Bradys the $20 million dollars for the horse, but Mike declines, claiming it's a symbol of their togetherness. Cindy gives him her doll, to console him, as she's outgrown it, after almost losing her mother. Jan (Jennifer Elise Cox), who made up a pretend boyfriend named George Glass in order to make herself seem more popular, meets a real boy named George Glass during the family's trip to Hawaii, and they become a couple. As Mike and Carol renew their vows in a ceremony held at their home, Marcia agrees to let Greg have the attic to himself, until he goes to college, and the two share one last on-screen kiss, before returning to being brother and sister. The movie ends with Carol tossing the bouquet, and a genie named Jeannie, arriving just in time to catch it. She then claims to be Mike Brady's first wife, much to Mike and Carol's dismay.