movieId: 2376
title: A View to a Kill
year: 1985
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0090264/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Glen
actors: Roger Moore, Christopher Walken, Tanya Roberts, Grace Jones, Patrick Macnee, Patrick Bauchau, David Yip, Fiona Fullerton, Manning Redwood, Alison Doody

synopsis:
MI6 agent James Bond (Sir Roger Moore ) is sent to Siberia to locate the body of 003 and recover a Soviet microchip. Upon doing so, he is ambushed by Soviet troops but flees in a waiting submarine. Back in London at the MI6 office, Bond catches up with Miss Moneypenny ( Lois Maxwell ), M ( Robert Brown ), Frederick Gray ( Geoffrey Keen ), the British Minister of Defence, and Q ( Desmond Llewelyn ). Q analyzes the microchip, establishing it to be a copy of one designed to withstand an electromagnetic pulse, made by government contractor Zorin Industries. Somebody inside Zorin is connected to the KGB. Bond visits Ascot Racecourse to observe the company's owner, Max Zorin ( Christopher Walken ), a psychopathic industrialist, the product of a Nazi genetic experiment, who plans to destroy Silicon Valley to gain a monopoly in the microchip market. Sir Godfrey Tibbett ( Patrick Macnee ), a racehorse trainer and MI6 agent, believes Zorin's horses, which win consistently, are drugged, although tests proved negative. Through Tibbett, Bond meets with French private detective Achille Aubergine ( Jean Rougerie ), who informs Bond that Zorin is holding a horse sale later in the month. During their dinner at the Eiffel Tower, Aubergine is assassinated by Zorin's bodyguard May Day ( Grace Jones ) (Zorin's lover and chief of staff. She seemingly possesses superhuman strength). Bond tries to stop her and follows her as she parachutes off the Eiffel Tower but loses her as she gets away in the River Seine in a speedboat driven by Zorin. Bond and Tibbett travel to Zorin's estate for the horse sale. Tibbett poses as Bond's valet. Tibbett wanders into the stables and finds one horse vanishes after being brought into the stables. Bond notices an attractive blonde woman visiting Zorin, who has written her a check for $5 million. At night, Bond and Tibbett break into Zorin's underground laboratory via the stable, where he is implanting adrenaline-releasing devices in his horses. They also find Zorin's warehouse with millions of crates of microchips. Even though Bond plants a tape recorder to mislead Zorin's secret surveillance devices in his room, they are almost caught snooping by security guards. Nevertheless, May Day finally remembers him from the Eiffel Tower assassination. Bond send Tibbitts on an errand. Then, Bond joins Zorin for a horseback ride. Zorin gives him a horse which has been injected with stimulants. Zoran offers Bond the Ithaca colt if he stays in the saddle in a cross-country race. But he discovers the jumps are booby-trapped with other jockeys chasing and trying to make him fall. The horse goes rogue and leaves the racecourse heading through the nearby forest at a dead run. He then discovers his Rolls Royce and chauffeur driving nearby and stops. Then he discovers Tibbitts is unconscious in the backseat with an armed May Day driving. He is held at gunpoint by Zorin who has caught up. Bond is knocked out and put in the backseat with Tibbitts. At a lakeside, they push the car into the water and watch it sink. Underwater, the car is tipped on its roof. Bond wakes up and realizes they are still watching him above. He then inhales air from the car tire until he could safely surface but Tibbitts drowns. General Gogol ( Walter Gotell ) of the KGB confronts Zorin for killing Bond without permission, revealing that Zorin was initially trained and financed by the KGB but has now gone rogue. Later in a airship, Zorin unveils to a group of investors his plan ("Main Strike") to destroy Silicon Valley, which will give him-and the potential investors a monopoly over microchip manufacture. Silicon Valley has 250 plants producing 80% of the world's supply of microchips. Zorin wants $100MM from each investor for this task. One man refuses and is ejected to his death. Bond goes to San Francisco. At Fisherman's Wharf, he meets with CIA agent Chuck Lee ( David Yip ), who claims Zorin is the product of medical experimentation with steroids performed by Dr. Carl Mortner ( Willoughby Gray ), a former Nazi scientist who is now Zorin's physician. In WWII, he used steroids on pregnant concentration camp prisoners to increase intelligence. Instead, many women aborted. Of the few who gave birth, many children developed psychosis. Bond guesses Zorin might be one of those children. Mortner was grabbed by the KGB after the war, and hence was never tried for war crimes. Bond then investigates a nearby heavily guarded oil pumping station owned by Zorin (after reports that crab fishermen say crabs near his oil pump just disappear). In scuba gear, he sees KGB agent Pola Ivanova ( Fiona Fullerton ) recording conversations and her partner placing mines on the pier. He enters a nearby pipe just before they begin testing. He is overtaken by the water pressure and he is forced to jam the mechanism with his scuba tank. Ivanova's partner is caught by May Day and killed. Zorin thinks the KGB wants to eliminate him. But Ivanova and Bond are able to escape. It turns out, they know each other. At a spa, they then spend the night together soaking in a hot tub, recounting past spy tales. Pola sees Bond take the recording. Later Ivanova steals back the tape from Bond's case, but finds out later he switched tapes. Bond is perplexed that Zorin is pumping seawater into his pipelines. Bond tracks down State Geologist Stacey Sutton ( Tanya Roberts ) at the California office of conservation, the woman Zorin attempted to pay off, and discovers that Zorin is trying to buy her family oil business. As he introduces himself, they are interrupted by Zorin's henchmen. He helps her fight them off. Stacey tells Bond how she has used all of her money to fight Zorin in the courts over a rigged proxy fight which caused her to sell even her furniture. They travel to San Francisco City Hall to check Zorin's submitted plans (on how many oil wells he has near the Silicon Valley area) after Bond tells Stacey that Zorin is pumping sea water into his oil wells instead of taking crude out. It turns out this has the potential to trigger a major earthquake. However, Zorin, who has been alerted to their presence, confronts them and holds them at gunpoint. He kills the Chief Geologist and Lee, and sets fire to the building to frame Bond for the murders. He traps them inside an elevator, intending for them to die. However, they climb out and get out of the burning elevator shaft. They escape in a fire engine before the police are able to arrest him. Bond and Stacey secretly inspect Zorin's mine, discovering his plot to detonate explosives beneath the lakes along the Hayward and San Andreas faults, which will cause them to flood and will produce a massive earthquake as a result, and submerge Silicon Valley forever. A larger bomb is also in the mine to destroy a "geological lock" that prevents the two faults from moving simultaneously. Once in place, Zorin and his security chief Scarpine ( Patrick Bauchau ) flood the mines and kill the workers. Stacey escapes while Bond fights May Day; when she realizes Zorin abandoned her, she helps Bond remove the larger bomb, putting the device onto a handcar and riding it out of the mine, chasing to commit suicide to prevent a worse explosion. Escaping in his airship with Scarpine and Mortner, Zorin abducts Stacey while Bond grabs hold of the airship's mooring rope. Zorin tries to knock him off, but Bond manages to moor the airship to the framework of the Golden Gate Bridge. Stacey attacks Zorin to save Bond, and in the fracas, Mortner and Scarpine are temporarily knocked out. Stacey flees and joins Bond out on the bridge, but Zorin follows them out with an ax. The ensuing fight between Zorin and Bond culminates with Zorin falling to his death. Mortner attempts to attack Bond with dynamite, but Bond cuts the airship free, causing Mortner to drop the dynamite in the cabin, blowing up the airship and killing himself and Scarpine. General Gogol wishes to award Bond the Order of Lenin for foiling Zorin's scheme, but M reports that he is missing. At Stacy's home, Q sends a remote-controlled surveillance robot in to search the residence, whereupon it discovers Bond in the bathroom, taking a shower with Stacey. Bond throws a towel over the robot's camera.