movieId: 19
title: Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls
year: 1995
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0112281/
ratingValue: 
directors: Steve Oedekerk
actors: Jim Carrey, Ian McNeice, Simon Callow, Maynard Eziashi, Bob Gunton, Sophie Okonedo, Tommy Davidson, Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje, Danny Daniels, Sam Phillips

synopsis:
Ace is in the Himalayas and climbing a steep cliff to rescue a raccoon. He is found by a rescue helicopter, which was sent in to bring him back. Ace reaches the top of the mountain with his pet monkey and finds a crashed plane. The raccoon cage was smashed open, and Ace finds the raccoon by the side of a nearby cliff. Ace rescues the raccoon and tries to zip line with him to safety. The safety harness of the raccoon splits open during the zip line, and it falls to its death, despite Ace's best efforts. After failing the rescue attempt of a raccoon in the Himalayas, Ace Ventura (Jim Carrey) undergoes an emotional breakdown and goes on a personal soul-searching quest by becoming a Tibetan monk.
He is approached by Fulton Greenwall (Ian McNeice), a British correspondent working for a provincial consulate in the African country of Nibia. Fulton offers Ace $20,000 for his services to retrieve a lost animal. Ace refuses citing that his presence is needed at the monastery. Being that Ace's influence is disruptive to the monastery, the Grand Abbot (Arsenio 'Sonny' Trinidad) eagerly gives Ace excuses by which to justify his departure. The entire monastery celebrates and gets drunk as Ace decides to take the case.
Before leaving Ace makes a slinky go down the thousands of steps leading to the monastery, but the slinky stops at the penultimate step, frustrating Ace. Greenwall asks Ventura to find a sacred animal called Shikaka, which has become a point of contention. Shikaka, which is a great white bat, is a sacred animal for the Wachati and Wachootoo tribes of Nibia. Whenever its name is spoken, the tribesmen must bow. Fulton says that Wachati believes that the disappearance of the Shikaka has placed a curse upon their village. The Princess of the Wachati was to marry the first son of the chief of the Wachootoo tribe, and the sacred animal was supposed to be offered in dowry for the wedding. If the Shikaka is not recovered, the Wachootoo will slaughter the Wachatis mercilessly. Accompanied by his Capuchin monkey, Spike, Ace travels to Africa and returns to his pet detective work. After arriving in Nibia and meeting with the head of the consulate, Vincent Cadby (Simon Callow), Ace begins learning about his case as well as the possible suspects. Ace demonstrates his legendary powers of observation which allows him to discern detailed facts about anyone he meets without them having to reveal anything at all.
Just to rile Ace, Cadby shows him his trophy room, which is full of the heads of the animals he killed in sport. Ace of horrified and while leaving gets an elephant to sit on Cadby's Rolls Royce. Ace, normally an animal lover, must overcome his fear of bats in order to continue studying the case, as Shikaka is a bat. He travels to the Wachati tribal village, where he learns that Shikaka is meant as a wedding present from the Wachati Princess (Sophie Okonedo), who is set to wed the Wachootoo Prince (Tommy Davidson). The Wachati Chief (Damon Standifer) spits on Ace, indicating that he likes him.
Ace learns that guano or bat droppings is a chief resource of the Wachati and is used to create many things in the village. Ace inspects the Shikaka cage in the chief's tent and finds a crow's feather under the cage. Only Cadby's man Burton Quinn (Bob Gunton) had a crow so far. Ace eventually befriends the tribe's princess, who tries to seduce Ace. Ace admits his oath to clerical celibacy. Ace also befriends the prince Ouda (Maynard Eziashi) of the Wachati, who assists Ace as he studied English. The Wachati have lived the same way for thousands of years and consider their traditions to be sacred. Much of Ace's activity involves eliminating various suspects and enduring the problems of dealing with the Wachati and the Wachootoo, who refer to him as the "white devil". This proves difficult and is made more so by other incidents including attempts to kill him. Ace suspects the medicine-man of the Wachootoo of taking the bat, attempts to infiltrate the Wachootoo village, but is immediately captured. The Wachootoo are convinced that Ace wants to fight them and have him go through many challenges to gain their trust. He passes them all, and his final challenge is a "Circle of Death" fight with their toughest warrior, who defeats Ace. Despite losing, Ace's comical antics entertain the Wachootoo, and release Ace and Ouda but warn them war will be next day at Noon. As he departs the Wachootoo village, the Wachootoo shoot Ace one final time with a dart for laughs. Ace suddenly realizes a tranquilizer dart he was shot with earlier is not the same as the Wachootoo's darts, and was carved from a Acala. This leads him to find two poachers with the bat. They tranquilize Ace and tie him to a raft which is sent over a waterfall. Ace survives and continues to investigate how the poachers are involved with the war between the tribes. Reduced to the limit of his ability to solve mysteries, Ace consults the Grand Abbot via astral projection. Advised by the Abbot, Ace finally discovers that Vincent Cadby had taken the bat and hired Ace as a cover for his own crimes. Cadby plans to let the tribes destroy each other and take possession of their land, using the numerous bat caves containing guano to sell as fertilizer. Ace manages to thwart Cadby's plans. However, tribal security chief Hitu (Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje) is by Cadby's side and sends him to jail, but Ace calls an elephant to escape, and then summons herds of animals, crushing Cadby's house. He tries to shoot Ace with a shotgun, but he is knocked out by Greenwall's fist. After waking up, Cadby manages to escape, with the bat, in a car and Ace chases him in a monster truck. Ace throws the truck's cigarette lighter at Cadby in an attempt to distract him, who finally rams into a tree and the cage with the bat flies away. Ace runs over Cadby's car, while Cadby runs away. Ace tries to chase him, but when he sees that the sun is rising, he confronts his phobia and dramatically returns the bat to the tribes by running through their battlefield with it clutched in his hands, while screaming its name. Cadby, who was covertly watching, is discovered when Ouda sees him and calls out to alert the nearby warriors that another "white devil" is in the area. He is then pursued by both tribes. Meanwhile, Ace accomplishes his mission when he puts (displeased) the bat in his cage. Cadby, who was pursued, ends up lost, out of sight of the tribes. While he was laughing in safety in a tree, he ends up in the hands of an amorous silver-back gorilla. The Princess is married to the Prince, who earlier appeared as a champion wrestler sent to challenge Ace's presence in the tribe. Moments later, it is discovered to the tribes' displeasure that the young bride is no longer a virgin, apparently due to Ace's intervention. Peace between the tribes is still achieved when the two tribes join together and chase after Ace.