movieId: 7345
title: Agent Cody Banks 2: Destination London
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0358349/
ratingValue: 
directors: Kevin Allen
actors: Frankie Muniz, Anthony Anderson, Hannah Spearritt, Cynthia Stevenson, Daniel Roebuck, Anna Chancellor, Keith Allen, James Faulkner, David Kelly, Santiago Segura

synopsis:
Agent Cody Banks (Frankie Muniz) attends summer camp, actually a secret facility for training CIA teenage agents. Cody is the top performing agent at the facility and is well trained in various hand to hand combat tactics, weapons handling and operation of many different kinds of spy equipment.
When parents come over for a visit, the entire camp is transformed to leave no trace of its CIA origins. When a group of CIA soldiers attempt to abduct head counselor Victor Diaz (Keith Allen), Cody helps him escape capture, mistaking the CIA operation for a training exercise. Cody loads Diaz into a helicopter and disables the other one, so nobody can follow him. The director later informs Cody that Diaz stole disks containing plans for a secret mind-control device. Diaz was in charge of the program when the CIA discovered it and ordered it to be shut down. But before the research could be confiscated, Diaz escaped. The disk contains the software for the mind control program.
The director says that the CIA maintains a secret storage facility underground at the camp site. Cody is equipped with mission devices and sent to the UK where Diaz was last seen. Cody lives with his parents Mrs Banks (Cynthia Stevenson) and Mr Banks (Daniel Roebuck) and has a 11 year old brother Alex (Connor Widdows). Alex knows that Cody is in the CIA, but nobody believes him. In the United Kingdom, Cody poses as a summer orchestra student at the Kenworth estate to spy on owner Lord Duncan Kenworth (James Faulkner), suspected of working with Diaz. Cody would be staying with 11 other musical geniuses from all over the world. Cody had written on his profile that he played the clarinet for 3 years, but he admits that he did that only to impress and meet girls.
Cody reads in the papers that a G7 summit is to be held at the Buckingham palace in the near future.
Lord Duncan is a brilliant scientist himself, and the CIA believes only Duncan has the resources and the capability to convert the mind control device into a working prototype weapon. Cody is supported by his handler, Derek (Anthony Anderson) and Kumar (Rod Silvers), Derek's right-hand man, who are disguised as a chef hired by Lady Josephine Kenworth (Anna Chancellor) and a taxi driver respectively.
Neville (Paul Kaye) is Derek's hysterical and quirky assistant who helps Cody with a variety of gadgets. Devices including exploding Mentos, a retainer with an in-built communicator, a high tensile wire camouflaged inside a normal pen, a clarinet that can play any programmed tune by itself and so on. While keeping his mission a secret from his fellow students, Cody sneaks around the estate and confirms that Diaz and Duncan are working together and that they have a working prototype of the mind control device, evidenced when Duncan makes a dog serve drinks and play the piano.
Cody learns that the orchestra is scheduled to play at the Buckingham palace during the G7 summit. Cody realizes that Duncan and Diaz plan to implant all world leaders in the G7 summit with the mind control device. Cody meets Derek in his room and relays what he saw in the meeting between Duncan and Diaz. Derek promises to make sure that the information reaches the CIA HQ. Derek speaks to the CIA director, who asks Cody to get into the lab and find out more about the mind control device and how it works.
Derek wants to be a field agent as well, but he is very clumsy and almost destroys the Kenworth kitchen due to his ineptitude. The next day, Cody breaks into a lab owned by Duncan, where he sees the finished device: a microchip inserted as a filling into a tooth cavity by dentist Santiago (Santiago Segura). Shortly afterwards Cody and Derek chase Diaz, armed with a rocket gun, through London streets, but Cody is captured by the Metropolitan Police Service and taken to Scotland Yard. He is later freed by Emily (Hannah Spearritt), a fellow student who, similar to Cody, is actually a British MI6 undercover operative. While Emily buys coffee and soda, henchmen sneak up on Cody, knocking him unconscious by drugging him with spray. They kidnap him and implant him with the microchip. Under Duncan, Santiago and Diaz's influence, Cody meets the CIA director (Keith David), who is then also converted. This is witnessed by Emily, who explains things to Derek. To get the microchip out of Cody, Derek cuts one of Cody's gadgets, exploding Mentos mints, into a precisely minuscule amount to safely remove the mind control gadget. The group later realize Diaz's plan: to implant all of the world leaders, who are all in London for a G7 summit at Buckingham Palace, effectively giving him control of the world. Deducing that with the CIA director under Diaz's control, they may be put on a most wanted list, Cody, Derek and Emily infiltrate the party before the summit. They explain the truth to the other students, who are performing for the guests, and urge them to keep the world leaders from attending the G7 summit. They later proceed to do so with an impromptu performance of War, while Cody, Emily and Derek search for the villains. Derek is implanted with the microchip and is set on Cody by Santiago. Before Santiago can kill him through Derek, Emily finds and subdues him, disabling the mind control software and rescuing the U.S. President, who was about to be implanted. Shortly after Cody kicks out Derek's microchip, the two of them remove the CIA director's microchip. Diaz, realizing that his plan has failed attempts to flee, but ends up fighting, and being defeated by Cody in the Queen's gift room. Duncan also attempts to escape, but is tripped by his apparently senile and blind butler Trival Jenkins (David Kelly), who turns out to be Emily's handler. After the villains are arrested, Cody returns to the camp, where Derek is now in charge as reward. Cody's parents pick him up, none the wiser about his dangerous exploits. Alex, Cody's younger brother tries to eat a few of his explosive Mentos, but Cody tosses them into the pond where they explode harmlessly.