movieId: 6624
title: Agent Cody Banks
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0313911/
ratingValue: 
directors: Harald Zwart
actors: Frankie Muniz, Hilary Duff, Angie Harmon, Keith David, Cynthia Stevenson, Arnold Vosloo, Daniel Roebuck, Ian McShane, Darrell Hammond, Martin Donovan

synopsis:
Cody Banks (Frankie Muniz), a 15-year-old high school student, applies for a junior position for the Central Intelligence Agency's Special Activities Division after completing his summer camp for CIA agents. The kids enter the camp, so the parents do not suspect anything, but inside they are trained by the CIA in the highest standards of combat, weapons handling, covert espionage and other mission critical skills. Cody lives with his parents Mrs Banks (Cynthia Stevenson) and Mr Banks (Daniel Roebuck) and has a brother named Alex. At home, Cody is expected to contribute to house chores like mowing the lawn and feeding the pets. Answering to his handler Agent Ronica Miles (Angie Harmon), Cody is called upon a mission to find information about a scientist named Dr. Albert Connors (Martin Donovan). Albert is the world's leading authority on Nano technology and its applications in Nano robotics. Connors is employed by a SPECTRE type organization named ERIS led by Dr. Brinkman (Ian McShane), and his henchman, Francois Molay (Arnold Vosloo). Connors had built Nano-robots that could clear oil spills, but Brinkman wanted Connors to program the Nano-robots to eat through any kind of carbon or silicone-based materials with obvious military applications.
CIA Director (Keith David) had received a last transmission from his agent undercover indicating that Brinkman had asked Connors to convert the Nanobots into a weapon. Connors only connect with the outside world is through his daughter Natalie. Cody is placed into the prep school of Dr. Connors' daughter, Natalie (Hilary Duff), the William Donovan Institute. As all CIA agents are known to Brinkman's organization, the CIA uses the unknown Banks. Banks is chosen because as per his report, he is smooth with the girls. Cody's mission is to get close to Natalie and through her, try and access Albert's lab to try and figure out his exact plans with the Nanobots. Cody is given a bunch of cool spy gear such as x-ray glasses, cell phone with a holographic display and GPS transmitter, $1000 in cash for expenses and a watch that activates an intense electric charge when its dial is pressed.
Cody tells his parents that he has been admitted to a prep school with full scholarship and that it has always been his dream to go there. Cody soon finds he has no social skill with girls and has no time to work on Natalie, while balancing his chores and homework. Cody knows that Natalie is way out of his league. The CIA decides to help by doing his chores and homework, trying to build his status, and going into the school to set him up with Natalie. Eventually, it emerges that Cody had lied on his profile and that he had no charms with the ladies. The director is livid, but they have limited time, and Cody is their only option now.
The CIA assembles a varying team of "experts" to train Cody into how to talk to girls and issue him with a variety of gadgets with various functions.
The experts cannot agree on the best way for Cody to approach Natalie and he is back to square one. Cody fails his driving license test, but the CIA intervenes and gets him a license from the DMV, so he can drive cool cars and impress Natalie. Eventually, Cody befriends and falls in love with Natalie after rescuing her from a falling a ladder while putting up a banner. After Cody befriends Natalie, he is invited to her 16th birthday party, where he goes undercover to her father's lab. Cody gifts Natalie a necklace with a built-in location tracker. Cody finds that Dr. Brinkman is planning to use Nanobots - which can destroy any carbon or silicon-based substance - to destroy the world's defense systems so he can threaten anyone who opposes him. Brinkman announces his intention to use the Nanobots to eat away the guidance systems on all intercontinental ballistic missiles, leaving their host nations defenseless.
Since the Nanobots are inactive in the cold, he plans to use ice cubes to distribute them. After Connors, Brinkman, and Francois leave the lab, Cody tries taking one of the ice cubes, but melts when in his possession. Cody falls in love with Natalie and nearly fails the mission at the same time exposing his cover to Brinkman and Molay, causing the CIA to suspend him. Dr. Brinkman sends Francois and some men to catch Natalie and bring her into his base in the mountains.
Meanwhile, Cody, disobeying orders to avoid Natalie, eats ice cream at a local restaurant with her. Cody attempts to explain things to Natalie but Francois and a group of henchmen ambush Cody and abduct Natalie.
Dr. Brinkman's men come over to their table and fight with Cody, knocking him unconscious. Cody is removed from the mission, and his parents punish him for staying out past his curfew. Cody gets his brother Alex (Connor Widdows) to make sure his parents do not find out that he is gone by giving him the $5,000 the CIA gave him. Cody infiltrates into the CIA weapons hold and steals a rocket powered snowboard and other devices to rescue Natalie. Cody knows Natalie's location via a tracking device in a necklace he gave her as a birthday present. Cody gets a ride to the top of the mountain and snowboards to the factory where Natalie is held. On the way, he gets caught in a grove of trees as Ronica finds him using a SoloTrek XFV. After convincing Ronica that they need to rescue Natalie, Cody infiltrates the laboratory and rescues Natalie. However, Natalie is held hostage by Dr. Brinkman, who puts an ice cube with a Nanobot inside, on her forehead to make her father program the system. Cody plants an explosive charge and Natalie places the partly melted cube in Dr. Brinkman's mouth, killing him. Cody defeats Francois and sends him to the CIA using the SoloTrek XFV. Cody, Mr. Connors, Natalie, and Ronica flee the facility before it explodes. The CIA welcomes Cody back to the team and congratulates him for completing the mission, and Cody and Natalie start a relationship.