movieId: 588
title: Aladdin
year: 1992
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0103639/
ratingValue: 
directors: Ron Clements, John Musker
actors: Scott Weinger, Robin Williams, Linda Larkin, Jonathan Freeman, Frank Welker, Gilbert Gottfried, Douglas Seale, Charlie Adler, Jack Angel

synopsis:
A merchant arrives in Agrabah. After trying to sell all kinds of wares, he shows the viewers a lamp that is up for sale. The merchant claims that the lamp is ancient and exclusive and begins to tell a story of how the lamp changed the course of a young man's life. "A young man who like this lamp was more than what he seemed. a diamond, in the rough." Jafar (Jonathan Freeman), the Royal Vizier of the fictional city of Agrabah, finds the 2nd half of a flying mechanical Scarab Beetle of which Jafar already possessed the first half, sold to him by a thief named Kassim (Charlie Adler). Jafar brings the 2 pieces together which then come alive as a glowing, flying beetle that flies in the direction of the "Cave of Wonders". Jafar follows the beetle on his horse, along with Kassim. The golden bug then settles on a sand dune which turns into a giant sand tiger with its mouth wide opened, the Cave of Wonders. Jafar seeks a lamp hidden within the Cave of Wonders. Jafar sends Kassim into the cave. However, upon approaching the cave, the tiger's head speaks that only one may enter: "One whose worth lies far within, the diamond in the rough!" Kassim still attempts to enter but as soon as he takes one step inside the tiger's mouth, it bites down on the thief, killing him instantly and closing off the entrance way. The golden scarab beetle then turns back into both halves which Jafar collects. It is then that Jafar and his parrot Iago (Gilbert Gottfried understand that they need to find this "diamond in the rough" in order to enter. Aladdin (Scott Weinger) is an Agrabah street urchin, a poverty-stricken but well-meaning Agrabah thief. Aladdin steals from the rich to feed himself. Razoul (Jim Cummings) is the captain of the guards who is always on the hunt for Aladdin. Aladdin is struggling to escape after stealing a loaf of bread, along with his kleptomaniac pet monkey, Abu (Frank Welker). After outwitting some of the city guards, the two settle down to eat their spoils
But Aladdin ends up giving away the bread to poor and destitute kids struggling to find any food. He also stands up to injustice and is ridiculed for his poverty and insignificance. Prince Achmed (Corey Burton), an arrogant person, arrives in Agrabah as a suitor for Princess Jasmine. Aladdin gets into a confrontation with the prince when he tries to punish two kids who mistakenly walked in front of his horse, causing it to stop abruptly. The prince kicks Alladin into a puddle of dirt and declares Aladdin to be nothing but "a worthless street rat." Aladdin and Abu then retire to their abode, with Aladdin promising his monkey friend that someday, things will be better. Achmed leaves Agrabah soon after meeting Jasmine (Linda Larkin), who rejects him. Jasmine had fended off his advances, allowing her pet tiger Rajah to rip out the suitor's pant. Jasmine found Achmed to be self-absorbed. Jasmine's father, the Sultan (Douglas Seale) is dim-witted but friendly ruler of Agrabah, who desperately tries to find a suitor for his daughter Jasmine. The Sultan consults with his adviser, Jafar, who claims he can help the Sultan, if the Sultan will give him his blue diamond ring. Using hypnosis on the Sultan, Jafar gets the ring, and retreats to his private quarters.
Jafar uses the blue diamond ring he stole from the Sultan to consult the sands of time. He identifies this "Diamond in the rough" as Aladdin via a magical hourglass that reveals Aladdin's face in the sands of time. Princess Jasmine is bored of her life in the royal palace and becomes even more upset to learn that the law requires her to marry a prince by her next birthday (which is in only 3 days' time) instead of marrying for love. She escapes the palace in plain clothes, and meets Aladdin and his pet monkey, Abu. Aladdin and Abu save Jasmine from an angry merchant. Jasmine had taken an apple and given it to a poor girl but had no money to pay for it. The merchant wanted to cut her hand off as a penalty for stealing. Aladdin tells the merchant that the girl is his crazy sister who claims to know the Sultan. Aladdin steals an apple from the merchant and returns it to him to secure Jasmine's release.
Aladdin takes Jasmine to his house, which is at the top of an abandoned tower, from where Aladdin has a view of the whole city. Jasmine and Aladdin both discuss how they are trapped in their lives. The palace guards then capture Aladdin on Jafar's orders. Aladdin realizes that Jasmine is the Princess when she reveals her identity to the guards and orders Aladdin's release. Razoul refuses to release Aladdin as the order to capture him came from Jafar. Returning to the Palace, Jasmine confronts Jafar to demand Aladdin's release. Jafar explains that Aladdin was captured because he kidnapped her. Jasmine reveals she escaped the palace on her own and Aladdin had nothing to do with it. But Jafar lies and says Aladdin has already been executed, sending her away in tears. In actuality, Aladdin has been imprisoned in the Royal dungeons. Jafar had the Sultan hypnotized and completely under his control. Jafar planned to usurp the throne and become the Sultan himself. Abu manages to free Aladdin inside the prison. Disguised as an aging man who had also been imprisoned, Jafar shows Aladdin and Abu a way out of the dungeons and brings them to the cave, with the lure of immense treasures, enough to impress a princess. Jafar orders them to retrieve the lamp. After being told to touch nothing but the lamp Aladdin enters the cave with Abu. The cave had a long and winding staircase that led to a chamber filled with treasures of all kinds.
Aladdin finds a sentient magic carpet inside & befriends it. The magic carpet leads them to the lamp's location and Aladdin obtains the lamp which was perched on the top of a tall pedestal, accessible by a staircase. Forgetting the cave's rule, Abu grabs a jewel in the cave. Aladdin, Abu, and the carpet rush to escape the cave as it collapses into an inferno of lava. They reach the entrance of the cave, where Jafar was waiting. Jafar (in the guise of an old beggar) pleads for Aladdin to give him the lamp, before he would help Aladdin to escape.
Aladdin gives the lamp to Jafar, who reveals a dagger, intending to kill Aladdin. Luckily, Abu bites the beggar, and both Aladdin and Abu fall back into the cavern, as the giant Tiger's Head disappears under the sand once again. Unknown to Jafar, Abu had stolen the lamp back again, which Jafar realizes after the cave had closed and he could only scream in frustration. Once the cave closes, it reverts back to its original state, without the lava and the collapsing ceiling. Abu reveals to Aladdin that he stole the lamp back.
Trapped inside the cave with no way out, Aladdin begins to examine the lamp, finding a worn inscription on the side of it. Aladdin rubs the lamp to get a clearer read of the inscription, which produces a large Blue Genie. Aladdin meets the Genie (Robin Williams), a comedic genie, trapped in the lamp for the last 10,000 years, with great powers that can only be exercised when his master wishes it.
The Genie lives inside the magic lamp. The Genie grants Aladdin three wishes although the Genie clarifies that he can't kill anybody, can't make anyone fall in love and can't bring people back from the dead. And Aladdin cannot wish for more wishes. Aladdin tricks the Genie into freeing them all (including the magic carpet) from the cave without using a wish, by suggesting that the genie doesn't seem very powerful. Aladdin carefully considers what to wish for and asks Genie what his wish would be. Genie is astounded as nobody has ever asked him this before. Genie wishes for freedom, but his master has to use one of his wishes to free him and that has never happened. Genie has phenomenal cosmic powers, but he is bound to the lamp until his master frees him.
Aladdin then uses his first wish to become a prince to woo Jasmine and promises to use his third wish to free the Genie from servitude. Abu is transformed into a large elephant and will be Aladdin's mount. Since Jafar does not have the lamp, he does not get the power to usurp the throne by force. Meanwhile, Jasmine has only 2 days before she has to get married by law. Wanting to find some way to attain power, at Iago's suggestion, Jafar plots to become Sultan by marrying Jasmine. Jafar attempts to convince the Sultan that there is a clause in the Royal rules that according to the law if a prince cannot be found in time, the Princess should marry the royal Wazir. The Sultan is reluctant to proceed so Jafar attempts to hypnotize him, but he is interrupted by loud music coming from outside. Aladdin, as "Prince Ali Ababwa," arrives in Agrabah with a large entourage (and Abu as his elephant). Aladdin brings with him many precious gifts for the Sultan such as 75 golden camels, 53 purple peacocks, exotic mammals, 95 white Persian Monkeys, 60 elephants and so on.
Jafar doesn't trust Prince Ali, but the Sultan is impressed with the flying carpet and considers Ali to be a suitable groom for Jasmine.
Jasmine becomes angry when Aladdin discusses her fate with her father, the Sultan, and Jafar without her. Jasmine is unimpressed and rebuffs Aladdin's pompous ways. Genie advises him to tell her the truth, but Aladdin ignores him. Aladdin is certain that Jasmine would laugh at him if she knew his truth. Genie argues that Jasmine sees Princes every day and one more is unlikely to impress her. As a means of apologizing, Aladdin visits Jasmine's chambers through her balcony, riding on his magic carpet. When Aladdin removes his hat to shoo away Rajah, Jasmine is reminded of the street urchin. Aladdin tries to gain Jasmine's interest again by telling her how rich and powerful he is, but she remains steadfastly ambivalent.
Aladdin offers to take Jasmine on a ride on the magic carpet. Jasmine wishes to ride with him and the two take a long trip around the world. Aladdin drops his pompous facade during the trip which eventually wins her over. Jasmine deduces Aladdin's true identity. Aladdin is tricked when Jasmine mentions Abu and he doesn't deny knowing him. Aladdin convinces her that he only dresses as a peasant to escape the stresses of royal life.
After Aladdin brings Jasmine home, the palace guards capture Aladdin on Jafar's behest and throw him into the lake. As Aladdin sinks to the bottom of the lake, he accidentally rubs the lamp when his face brushes against it. The Genie appears and saves Aladdin, at the cost of his second wish. Aladdin returns to the palace and exposes Jafar's evil plot. Jafar was using his cobra-shaped staff to once again to hypnotize the Sultan, demanding that he order his daughter to marry the treacherous vizier. Aladdin figures out Jafar's schemes and smashes the staff.
Jafar flees after spotting the lamp and thus discovering Aladdin's true identity. Fearing that he will lose Jasmine if the truth is revealed, Aladdin breaks his promise and refuses to free the Genie. Aladdin tells him he can't free the Genie as he wouldn't be the prince that he is without him. The Genie suddenly retreats into the lamp, feeling angry and betrayed. Iago steals the lamp, and Jafar becomes the Genie's new master. Jafar summons the Genie. Genie is forced to do Jafar's bidding and appears in a gigantic form. Jafar uses his first wish to become the world's most powerful sorcerer and reveals to everyone that Aladdin is nothing but a street urchin. He launches him out of the palace in a makeshift rocket which lands in a snowy cold mountain region. Jafar then uses his second wish to become Sultan and imprisons the Sultan and the princess until she agrees to marry him. Trapped in the mountains, Aladdin finds Abu and the magic carpet and is able to return to Agrabah, sneaking into the palace. He finds the Genie, who warns him he can't help him since Jafar holds the lamp. Aladdin tries to sneak up on Jafar to steal back the lamp. Jasmine sees Aladdin's plan and uses Jafar's wish for her to be in love with him as an excuse to pretend being suddenly enraptured with Jafar to distract him. However, Jafar sees Aladdin's reflection in Jasmine's tiara and knocks him away.
He then traps Jasmine in a large hourglass where she will eventually be submerged in sand and die. Jafar transforms himself into a giant cobra to terrorize Aladdin, who fights back valiantly. Aladdin taunts Jafar for being less powerful than the Genie, tricking Jafar into using his last wish to become an all-powerful Genie himself. Jafar gains limitless powers but then is also bound by shackles and dragged into his very own lamp. Jafar then changes form which frees Aladdin so he can run to Jasmine's hourglass and break her out before she suffocates.
Now bound to his new lamp, Jafar ends up trapped inside it, taking Iago with him. The Genie then throws Jafar's lamp far into the desert, hoping to banish Jafar to the Cave of Wonders. With Agrabah returned to normal, the Genie advises Aladdin to use his third wish to regain his royal title, so the law will allow him to stay with Jasmine. Aladdin instead decides to keep his promise and frees the Genie. The lamp becomes inactive and the genie's shackles fall off his wrists. Realizing Aladdin's nobility, the Sultan changes the law to allow Jasmine to marry whom she chooses.
Abu is changed back into his monkey form and the Genie leaves after an emotional goodbye. Aladdin and the princess are married, and Aladdin becomes heir to the kingdom. The Genie bids the group a fond farewell and leaves to explore the world, while Aladdin and Jasmine start their new life together.