movieId: 6899
title: Alien from L.A.
year: 1988
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0092532/
ratingValue: 
directors: Albert Pyun
actors: Kathy Ireland, William R. Moses, Richard Haines, Don Michael Paul, Thom Mathews, Janie du Plessis, Simon Poland, Linda Kerridge, Kristen Trucksess

synopsis:
Wanda Saknussemm (Kathy Ireland) is a nerdy social misfit with large glasses and an unusually squeaky voice who lives in Los Angeles and works at a diner. After being dumped by her boyfriend for not having a sense of adventure, Wanda is informed by a letter that her father, an archaeologist, fell into a bottomless pit and perished. She flies to North Africa and while going through her father's belongings, she finds his notes about Atlantis, apparently an alien spaceship that crashed millennia ago and sank into the center of the Earth. Wanda comes across a chamber beneath her father's apartment and sets off a chain of events by chance that ultimately cause her to fall into a deep hole. An unharmed Wanda wakes up deep within the Earth to find Guten 'Gus' Edway (William R. Moses), a miner whom she protects from being slain by two people. Gus agrees to help Wanda find her father, whom she believes is alive and trapped underground. Wanda soon discovers that both she and her father are believed to be secret agents planning an invasion of Atlantis. During her adventures, Wanda's appearance changes from nerdy to attractive (by removing her glasses and using a steam vent to clean her skin). People from the surface world are believe to be aliens by the Atlanteans, who appear to be virtually identical to surface dwellers, and when Wanda is overheard speaking about Malibu Beach by a lowlife informant, she soon becomes a hunted woman and must dodge attempts at capture, both by the mysterious Government House and from thugs paid by the crime lord Mambino (Deep Roy). Wanda's attempts at escape are assisted by Charmin (Thom Mathews), a handsome rogue who (briefly) assists her flight and falls in love with Wanda. She is ultimately captured by the evil General Pykov (Janie Du Plessis), who wants to execute both Wanda and her incarcerated father. The Atlantean leader decides to free Wanda and her father, provided they remain quiet about Atlantis. Gus shows up and helps the duo escape while fighting off General Pykov and her soldiers. Wanda and her father board a spaceship that takes them back to the surface and the film ends with Wanda on the beach, wearing a bikini and a sarong. She refuses the advances of her ex-boyfriend and is soon reunited with Charmin, who inexplicably appears on a motorcycle.