movieId: 1690
title: Alien: Resurrection
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118583/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jean-Pierre Jeunet
actors: Sigourney Weaver, Winona Ryder, Dominique Pinon, Ron Perlman, Gary Dourdan, Michael Wincott, Kim Flowers, Dan Hedaya, J.E. Freeman, Brad Dourif

synopsis:
Two hundred years after the events of Alien 3, military scientists on the outer space vessel USM Auriga (a Medical Research Facility funded by the United Systems Military) create a clone of Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) using DNA from blood samples taken before her death. The Alien queen's DNA was mixed in with Ripley's, and the clone grows up with an alien embryo already inside it. The scientists extract the embryo. The Ripley clone is kept alive for further study. The Ripley clone has the number 8 tattooed on her arm indicating that there have been 7 more clones before her. As a result of the alien's DNA inside her, she develops enhanced strength and reflexes, has acidic blood and a psychic link with the Aliens making her more empathetic toward them than the humans she encounters. Also, the alien's genetic memory allows the clone to have some of Ripley's memories. With no training or education, Ripley is operating at a near adult capability. The Auriga crew comprises of 42 enlisted soldiers and 7 scientists. This includes General Martin Perez commanding officer, Dr Wren, Dr. Jonathan Gediman, Vincent DiStephano (soldier), Anesthesiologist (Carolyn Campbell), Dr. Carlyn Williamson (Marlene Bush), Dr. Dan Sprague (David St. James) and Father (Steven Gilborn) the artificial intelligence system of the USM Auriga. Perez is alarmed that Ripley even has memories due to the genetic crossing and wants to terminate her. Meanwhile the embryo extracted from Ripley was an Alien Queen and has been nurtured in captivity to grow into an adult. Soon, the alien Queen starts producing eggs which are collected by the scientists.
Ripley warns the scientists that everybody on the ship will die. A group of mercenaries, Elgyn (Michael Wincott) captain, Johner (Ron Perlman) makes bad jokes, has a short temper, and teases Vriess about his handicap, Christie (Gary Dourdan) the first mate and second-in-command, Vriess (Dominique Pinon) mechanic and a paraplegic who he uses a motorized wheelchair, Hillard (Kim Flowers) the assistant pilot who is romantically involved with Elgyn, and Call (Winona Ryder) the newest crew member of the Betty, arrive at Auriga on their ship Betty. They deliver several kidnapped humans in stasis. The military scientists use the kidnapped humans as hosts for the Aliens, raising several adult Aliens for study.
The Betty is a tiny ship compared to the Auriga, and docks inside the Auriga in the cargo hold of the ship. The Betty crew soon encounters Ripley. Call recognizes her name and tries to kill her, suspecting she may be used to create more Aliens. Seeing the cut on her chest, Call realizes that there is no point as the alien has already been extracted from Ripley. Ripley tells Call that she can feel the aliens inside her, and Call wants her help to stop the aliens. Ripley says that it is already too late. Aliens are kept in a single confined enclosure and are under constant supervision. However, the Aliens have already matured and escape confinement by killing off one of their own and using the acidic blood to burn through their enclosures. They damage the Auriga and kill the crew members who do not manage to evacuate, including General Perez (Dan Hedaya) and Elgyn. Military scientist Dr. Wren (J. E. Freeman) reveals that the ship's default command in an emergency is to return to Earth. Realizing this will unleash the Aliens on Earth, Ripley, the mercenaries, Wren, a Marine named DiStephano (Raymond Cruz), and surviving Alien host Purvis (Leland Orser), decide to head for the Betty and use it to destroy the Auriga. Along the way, Ripley 8 discovers a laboratory containing the grotesque results of the previous seven failed attempts to clone Ellen Ripley. One survivor begs Ripley 8 to euthanize her; she hesitantly complies and then incinerates the lab. As the group make their way through the damaged ship, they swim through a flooded kitchen. They are chased by two Aliens. One is killed, while the other snatches Hillard. As they escape the kitchen, the Alien returns and blinds Christie, who sacrifices himself to kill the Alien so the others can escape. After Wren betrays the group, Call is revealed to be an android. Using her ability to interface with the Auriga's systems, Call sets it on a collision course with Earth, hoping to destroy the Aliens in the crash. She cuts off Wren's route of escape and directs the Aliens towards him. Ripley is captured by the Aliens, while the other survivors head for the Betty. There, Wren shoots Purvis and takes Call hostage, demanding that she abort the collision. An injured Purvis violently attacks Wren and forces his head to his chest just as the Alien embryo he is carrying bursts through his rib-cage, causing it to go through Wren's head and kill them both. The survivors then shoot at the embryo. Ripley is taken to the Alien nest, where she witnesses the Queen (Tom Woodruff Jr.), now possessing a womb as a result of the genetic mixture, gives birth to a Newborn, a Xenomorph with human traits, such as human teeth, mouth, pale skin color and a human-like face with actual eyes. Unable to bond with the queen, the hybrid Xenomorph recognizes Ripley 8 as its mother and kills the Xenomorph queen and Dr. Jonathan Gediman (Brad Dourif), a scientist previously captured and cocooned. Ripley takes advantage of the distraction to escape. She makes her way to the Betty. The Newborn reaches the Betty and attacks Call. It kills DeStephano when he arrives to help her. Ripley finds her way onto the ship and saves Call by distracting the Newborn. Using her acidic blood, Ripley melts the glass of a window and pushes the Newborn towards the hole. Ripley tearfully watches as the decompression violently eviscerates the creature through the hole and blows its pulverized remains out into space. The countdown on the Auriga continues as the survivors escape in the Betty. The Auriga collides with Earth, causing a large explosion. Call and Ripley look down at Earth, and when Call asks what Ripley wants to do next, she says, "I'm a stranger here myself."