movieId: 1320
title: Alien³
year: 1992
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0103644/
ratingValue: 
directors: David Fincher
actors: Sigourney Weaver, Charles S. Dutton, Charles Dance, Paul McGann, Brian Glover, Ralph Brown, Danny Webb, Christopher John Fields, Holt McCallany, Lance Henriksen

synopsis:
A face-Hugger approaches Ripley's cryogenic Statis pod and attaches itself. Scans of the crew's Cryotubes show an alien face-Hugger, a parasite that implants its hosts with Alien embryos, attached to one of the members. The Acid blood from the face-Hugger drips on to the floor, corroding the electrical wires and causing a short circuit. A fire starts aboard the Colonial Marine spaceship Sulaco. The computer launches an escape pod containing Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), the young girl Rebecca "Newt" Jordan (Danielle Edmond), the wounded Corporal Hicks, and the damaged android Bishop (Lance Henriksen); all four are in Cryonic stasis. The pod crash-lands on Fiorina "Fury" 161, a foundry facility (a mineral ore refinery) and penal colony (a double Y chromosome work correctional facility) inhabited by male inmates with histories of physical and sexual violence. The pod is almost completely destroyed with only Ripley's pod surviving the crash. Newt and Hicks are found to be dead. Bishop is smashed beyond repair due to the crash.
After inmates recover the pod and its passengers, a face-Hugger (hiding inside the pod) approaches inmate Thomas Murphy's dog, Spike. Ripley is awakened by Clemens (Charles Dance), the prison doctor, and informed that she is the only survivor. Many of the ex-inmates, led by Dillon (Charles S. Dutton), have embraced an apocalyptic, Millenarian version of Christianity. Dillon is one of Fiorina's inmates who functions as the spiritual and practically the leader among the prisoners and attempts to keep the peace in the facility. The facility used to host 5000 convicts, but now has a custodial staff of 25 to keep the foundry going. The inmates forge lead sheets for toxic waste containers. The company wanted to shut the facility down, but Dillion and some of the religious converts wanted to stay and were allowed to remain as custodians. Ripley is warned by the prison warden, Harold Andrews (Brian Glover), that her presence may have disruptive effects. Andrews has called for a rescue team that is expected to arrive within a week's time. Ripley inspects the damaged escape pod and finds evidence of the alien's corrosive blood on one of the pods. Ripley requests that Clemens perform an autopsy on Newt, secretly fearing that Newt may be carrying an alien embryo. Despite protests from the warden and his assistant Aaron (Ralph Brown), the autopsy is conducted, and no embryo is found. Ripley's unusual behavior begins to frustrate the warden and agitate the prisoners. The prisoners refer to Aaron by the nickname "85", after his IQ score, which annoys him. A funeral is held for Newt and Hicks and their bodies are cremated in the facility furnace. Spiritual leader Dillon delivers a speech as the deceased are dropped into the furnace.
In another section of the facility, an unusually large Alien bursts from the prison dog. The Alien kills several members of the colony and returns outcast prisoner Golic (Paul McGann) to his deranged state.
Meanwhile, Clemens and Ripley are attracted to each other and end up having sex. Clemens investigates the location of the deaths and finds the same burn marks as on the pod of Ripley's escape shuttle. Ripley is alarmed at Clemen's observation and wants to activate Bishop. Clemens sends her alone as he had a prior commitment elsewhere. Ripley finds the damaged Bishop in the prison's garbage dump before being cornered by four inmates and almost sexually assaulted by the group. After being saved by Dillon, Ripley returns to the infirmary and re-activates Bishop, who, before asking to be permanently shut down, confirms that a face-Hugger came with them to Fiorina in the escape pod, under knowledge of the Weyland-Yutani Corporation. Ripley informs Andrews of her encounters with the Aliens and suggests everyone work together to hunt down and kill it. Andrews does not believe her story but explains that the facility has no weapons; their only hope is the rescue ship being sent for Ripley by the Weyland-Yutani Corporation. The Alien surprises Ripley and Clemens in the prison infirmary and kills Clemens. It examines Ripley but spares her and retreats. Ripley rushes to the cafeteria to warn the others. Andrews orders Aaron to take her back to the infirmary, but he is ambushed and killed by the Alien. Ripley rallies the inmates and proposes they pour flammable toxic waste into the ventilation system and ignite it to flush out the Alien. However, the Alien's intervention causes an explosion, and several inmates are killed. With Aaron's help, Ripley scans herself using the escape pod's medical equipment and sees the embryo of an Alien Queen growing inside her. Upon this discovery, she realizes that Weyland-Yutani plans on capturing the alien incubating inside of her in hopes of turning it into biological weapons. Deducing that the Alien will not kill her because of the embryo she carries, Ripley begs Dillon to kill her; he agrees only if she helps the inmates kill the adult creature first. They form a plan to lure the creature into the foundry's molding facility, trap it via a series of closing doors, and drown it in molten lead. The bait-and-chase plan results in the death of every prisoner except Morse (Danny Webb) and Dillon. Dillon remains in the mold to distract the Alien, allowing it to tear him apart as Morse pours the molten lead onto them. The Alien is covered in molten metal but escapes the mold; Ripley activates the fire sprinklers, causing the Alien's exoskeleton to cool rapidly and shatter, killing it. The Weyland-Yutani commando team arrives, including a man who looks identical to Bishop who claims he is Bishop's creator (Lance Henriksen). He tries to persuade Ripley to undergo surgery to remove the Queen embryo, which he claims will be destroyed. Ripley refuses and steps back onto a mobile platform, which Morse positions over the furnace. The Weyland-Yutani team shoot Morse in the leg; Aaron strikes the Bishop look-alike with a wrench and is shot dead by the commandos. The commando team begs Ripley to let them have the "magnificent specimen". Ripley throws herself into the furnace, holding captive the infant queen as it erupts from her. The facility is closed and the only surviving inmate, Morse, is led away.