movieId: 1200
title: Aliens
year: 1986
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0090605/
ratingValue: 
directors: James Cameron
actors: Sigourney Weaver, Carrie Henn, Michael Biehn, Paul Reiser, Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton, William Hope, Jenette Goldstein, Al Matthews, Mark Rolston

synopsis:
Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) is rescued after drifting through space in stasis for 57 years. She is debriefed by her employers at the Weyland-Yutani Corporation over the destruction of her ship, the Nostromo; they are skeptical of her claims that an Alien killed the ship's crew and forced her to destroy the ship. Ripley tries to convince her employers that while she killed the creature, the alien ship itself carried thousands of eggs & if any of those were to make their way to Earth, life would come to an end as these aliens gestate inside living humans. In Zeta Reticuli, the Exomoon LV-426, where the USCSS Nostromo encountered the alien eggs, is now home to the Terraforming colony Hadley's Hope with about 60 - 70 families living there for over 20 years to change the planet's atmosphere and make it livable for humans. One of the exploration groups at the station encounters the alien ship & accidentally triggers the breeding process in which one of the eggs hatches and locks itself to the face of the explorer, starting the breeding. When contact is lost with Hadley's Hope, Weyland-Yutani representative Carter Burke (Paul Reiser) and Colonial Marine Lieutenant Gorman (William Hope) ask Ripley to accompany Burke and a Colonial Marine unit to investigate the disturbance. Traumatized by her encounter with the Alien, Ripley initially refuses, but relents after experiencing recurring nightmares about the creature; she makes Burke promise to destroy, and not capture, the Aliens. Aboard the spaceship USS Sulaco, she is introduced to the Colonial Marines and the android Bishop (Lance Henriksen), toward whom Ripley is initially hostile following her experience with the traitorous android Ash aboard the Nostromo. A drop-ship delivers the expedition to the surface of LV-426, where they find the colony deserted. Inside, they find makeshift barricades and signs of a struggle, but no bodies; two live face-Huggers in containment tanks in the medical lab; and a survivor, a traumatized young girl nicknamed Newt (Carrie Henn) who used the ventilation system to evade capture or death. The crew uses the colony's computer to locate the colonists grouped beneath the fusion powered atmosphere processing station. They head to the location, descending into corridors covered in Alien secretions. At the center of the station, the marines find the colonists cocooned, serving as incubators for the Aliens' offspring. When the marines kill a newborn Alien, the Aliens are roused and ambush the marines, killing and capturing several. When the inexperienced Gorman panics, Ripley takes control of their vehicle and rams it through the nest to rescue marines Hicks (Michael Biehn), Hudson (Bill Paxton), and Vasquez (Jenette Goldstein). Hicks orders the drop-ship to recover the survivors, but a stowaway Alien kills the pilots, causing it to crash. Ripley, Newt, Burke and the remaining marines barricade themselves inside the colony. Ripley discovers that Burke deliberately sent the colonists to investigate the derelict spaceship where the Nostromo crew first encountered the Alien eggs, believing he could become wealthy by recovering Alien specimens for use as biological weapons. She threatens to expose him, but Bishop informs the group of a greater danger: the power plant was damaged during the battle and will soon detonate with the force of a 40-megaton thermonuclear weapon. He volunteers to crawl through several hundred meters of piping conduits to reach the colony's transmitter and remotely pilot the Sulaco's remaining drop-ship to the surface. Ripley and Newt fall asleep in the medical laboratory, awakening to find themselves locked in the room with the two face-Huggers, which have been released from their tanks. Ripley triggers a fire alarm to alert the marines, who rescue them and kill the creatures. Ripley accuses Burke of releasing the face-Huggers so that they would impregnate her and Newt, allowing him to smuggle the Alien embryos past Earth's quarantine, and of planning to kill the rest of the marines in hyper-sleep during the return trip so that no one could contradict his version of events. Before the marines can kill Burke, the electricity is cut and Aliens assault through the ceiling. Vasquez and Gorman are killed, while Hudson, Burke, and Newt are captured. Ripley and an injured Hicks reach Bishop in the second drop-ship, but Ripley refuses to abandon Newt. She hastily assembles a weapon and rescues Newt from the hive in the processing station, where the two encounter the Alien queen in her egg chamber. Ripley destroys the eggs, enraging the queen, who tears free from her Ovipositor. Pursued by the queen, Ripley and Newt rendezvous with Bishop and Hicks on the drop-ship. All four escape moments before the colony is consumed by the nuclear blast. On the Sulaco, Ripley and Bishop's relief at their escape is interrupted when the Alien queen, stowed away on the drop-ship's landing gear, tears Bishop in two. The queen advances on Newt, but Ripley clashes with her using an Exosuit cargo-loader and expels it through an airlock. Ripley, Newt, Hicks and the badly damaged Bishop enter hyper-sleep for the return to Earth.