movieId: 8810
title: Alien vs. Predator
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0370263/
ratingValue: 
directors: Paul W.S. Anderson
actors: Sanaa Lathan, Raoul Bova, Lance Henriksen, Ewen Bremner, Colin Salmon, Tommy Flanagan, Joseph Rye, Agathe de La Boulaye, Carsten Norgaard, Sam Troughton

synopsis:
In Oct 2004, a low Earth Orbit satellite (belonging to the Weyland Corporation) detects a mysterious heat bloom beneath Bouvetoya, an island about one thousand miles off the coast of Antarctica. The Supervisor (Liz May Brice) at the Nebraska satellite receiving station reports the finding. Wealthy industrialist Charles Bishop Weyland (Lance Henriksen) discovers through thermal imaging that there is a pyramid buried 2000 feet beneath the ice. He attempts to claim it for his multinational communications company, Weyland Industries, a subsidiary of the Weyland Corporation, and assembles a team of experts to investigate. The team includes archaeologists, linguistic experts, drillers, mercenaries, and a guide named Alexa Woods (Sanaa Lathan). Terminally ill, Weyland desires to claim the discovery in his name. Weyland offers to fund Woods' organization for a year if she agrees to join the expedition. Woods had spent several seasons exploring Arctic and Antarctic environments. Team members are Dr. Graeme Miller (Ewen Bremner) a Scottish chemical engineer and the main scientist, Maxwell Stafford (Colin Salmon) assistant to Mr. Weyland and former British Special Forces officer, Mark Verheiden (Tommy Flanagan), Stone (Petr Jakl), Joe Connors (Joseph Rye), Adele Rousseau (Agathe De La Boulaye) as members of the armed escort a member of the armed escort, Rusten Quinn (Carsten Norgaard) head of the drilling team, Professor Sebastian De Rosa an Italian archaeologist (who needed funding to continue his site in Mexico), Thomas Parks (Sam Troughton) the second archaeologist and others. The team assembles on the Ice-Breaker ship Piper Maru where Weyland briefs them. Sebastian sees the thermal imaging scans and sees elements of Aztec, Egyptian and Cambodian pyramids in one structure. He believes it might be the first pyramid ever built. The drilling team proposes to drill a hole to the pyramid in 1 week. Woods needs 3 weeks to train everyone but is denied as Weyland says time is of the essence and the discovery will not remain a secret for too long. As a Predator ship reaches Earth's orbit, it fires a beam that creates a passage through the ice towards the source of the heat bloom. When the team arrives at the abandoned whaling station (abandoned in 1904 and it was a big mystery back then as everyone just disappeared overnight), they find a newly made tunnel running directly from the ice's surface toward the pyramid beneath at a perfect 30-degree angle. The 3 Predators observe the humans from their ship in orbit, and they approach the tunnel, the Predators start arming themselves. The Predator shuttle ship approaches the whaling station and Cloaks itself.
They locate the mysterious pyramid and begin to explore it, finding evidence of a prehistoric civilization and what appears to be a sacrificial chamber filled with human skeletons with ruptured rib cages. Meanwhile, three Predators (Scar (Ian Whyte), Celtic, and Chopper) arrive and kill all the humans on the surface. The Predators themselves are using technology that makes them invisible to the human eye. The Predators see their prey through infrared light detection.
They make their way down to the pyramid and arrive just as the team unwittingly activates the structure. The Alien Queen awakes from cryogenic stasis and begins to produce eggs. When the eggs hatch, several face-Huggers attach themselves to humans trapped in the sacrificial chamber. Chest-Bursters emerge from the humans and quickly grow into adult Aliens. Conflict erupts between the Predators, Aliens, and humans, resulting in several deaths. Two Predators Celtic and Chopper are killed by an Alien, and Weyland is killed by the remaining Predator, while allowing Alexa and archaeologist Sebastian De Rosa (Raoul Bova) enough time to escape. The two witness the Predator kill a face-Hugger and an Alien with a Suriken before unmasking and marking himself with the blood of the face-Hugger. After Alexa and Sebastian leave, another face-Hugger attaches itself to the unmasked Predator. Through translation of the pyramid's hieroglyphs, Alexa and Sebastian learn that the Predators have been visiting Earth for thousands of years. It was they who taught early human civilizations how to build pyramids and were worshiped as gods. Every 100 years they would visit Earth to take part in a rite of passage in which several humans would sacrifice themselves as hosts for the Aliens, creating the "ultimate prey" for the Predators to hunt. If overwhelmed, the Predators would activate a self-destruct device to eliminate the Aliens and themselves. The two deduce that this is why the current Predators are at the pyramid, and that the heat bloom was to attract humans for the sole purpose of making new Aliens to hunt. Alexa and Sebastian decide that the Predators must be allowed to succeed in their hunt so that the Aliens "do not reach the surface". Sebastian is captured by a Xenomorph, and Lex returns the blaster to Scar. They are attacked by a Xenomorph, and Lex manages to kill it. Impressed, Scar uses parts of a dead Xenomorph to fashion weapons for Lex, and the two form an alliance. Lex finds Sebastian, who has become the host of a Xenomorph. She mercy kills him, but the Xenomorph Queen is freed from her restraints and, along with the other Xenomorphs, begins pursuing Lex and Scar. Scar detaches and uses a bomb in his wrist module to destroy the pyramid and the remaining Xenomorphs and their eggs. Lex and Scar reach the surface, and Scar uses acidic Xenomorph blood to mark Lex with the Xenomorph hunter symbol. However, the Xenomorph Queen reappears and attacks. Scar is fatally wounded, but they defeat the Queen by hooking her chains to a water tank and pushing her over a cliff so that she sinks to the ocean floor under the tank's weight. A Predator spaceship appears, and its crew retrieves its fallen comrade. An elder Predator sees the hunter scar on Lex's face and presents her with a spear as a gift as the spaceship departs. Lex walks over to a snow-cat and leaves the area. On the Predator spaceship, Scar's body lies at rest when a hybrid Predalien Chest-Burster erupts from his chest.