movieId: 3897
title: Almost Famous
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0181875/
ratingValue: 
directors: Cameron Crowe
actors: Billy Crudup, Frances McDormand, Kate Hudson, Jason Lee, Patrick Fugit, Zooey Deschanel, Michael Angarano, Anna Paquin, Fairuza Balk, Noah Taylor

synopsis:
In 1969, young William Miller (Michael Angarano) lives with his widowed mother Elaine (Frances McDormand) and older sister Anita (Zooey Deschanel) in San Diego, California. While William gets along well with his family, his academic-minded mother and rebellious sister are at odds with each other about a number of things. William also receives a startling revelation when Anita has Elaine confess that William is actually 11, and not 13 as he has been led to believe. Once she turns 18, Anita leaves home to become a stewardess. In the wake of her absence, she leaves her record collection to William. Four years later, the albums have led William (Patrick Fugit) to write a number of freelance articles about rock and roll. When famed rock journalist Lester Bangs (Philip Seymour Hoffman) visits San Diego, William takes the opportunity to meet him. Impressed by William's drive, Lester gives him an assignment to interview Black Sabbath at the San Diego Sports Arena. While the arena's door person refuses to let him in, William manages to enter with some help from the band Stillwater, who are the opening band for Black Sabbath. William also meets a group of young women calling themselves Band-Aids. Led by Penny Lane (Kate Hudson), they claim they are there to support and inspire the bands. After the concert, Stillwater's lead guitarist Russell Hammond (Billy Crudup) invites William and Penny to meet up with the band in Los Angeles. The two make the trip, where it becomes apparent to William that there is something going on between Russell and Penny. William next receives a phone call from Rolling Stone editor Ben Fong-Torres (Terry Chen), who requests William write an article for the magazine. William suggests interviewing Stillwater, and is soon touring with the band (and the Band-Aids!) for a few days to interview them (much to the horror of his mother). On the road, William is privy to a number of notable events. In Tempe Arizona, Russell gets electrocuted, leading to the band leaving before finishing their set, much to the ire of the show's promoter. In Topeka Kansas, the band's first t-shirt design focuses more on Russell, leading to an argument with lead singer Jeff Bebe (Jason Lee). Following this, William and Russell go to a local party where Russell drops acid and proclaims himself to be "a golden god." In Greenville Tennessee, William is "deflowered" by the Band Aids (not including Penny Lane), and has to contend with a phone call from Ben Fong-Torres about the story. William manages to buy himself some more time to finish it, but is informed that Rolling Stone is considering putting the band on the next issue's cover. Still not having gotten an interview with Russell, William is forced to accompany the band to Cleveland, Ohio. He gives his Mom a call to try and make amends that he is staying longer than intended, but the call is intercepted by Russell, only for the lead guitarist to be freaked out by Elaine's well-educated "directness." Following the Cleveland concert, a manager named Dennis Hope (Jimmy Fallon) meets with the band at the behest of the record label. While the band does not want to lose Dick Roswell (Noah Taylor) and claims they play for the fans, they soon buy into Dennis' vision of making more money by adding more tour dates. The next day, the band ditches their tour bus "Doris," and hop aboard a private airplane to Boston, Massachusetts. It is here that William is privy to a poker game wherein the Band-Aids and Penny Lane are "sold" to Humble Pie before Stillwater reaches New York, where Russell's girlfriend Leslie (Liz Stauber) is to meet up with the band. William tries to keep quiet about this, but hearing how Penny believes that Russell really does love her, he lets slip what he heard. In New York, William receives a call from Ben Fong-Torres, claiming the magazine has approved the band for their next cover, and requesting he send what he has for the fact-checker to start reviewing. The band celebrates the cover news at a restaurant, but Leslie soon sees Penny Lane eyeing the band from a corner. Dick gets her to leave and she rushes off with William giving chase out of concern. He follows her to the Plaza Hotel, where he finds she has overdosed on Quaaludes. He manages to call a doctor and saves her life. In the aftermath, Penny confesses to William that her real name is Lady Goodman, and he makes sure she gets back to San Diego via airplane. William rejoins the band afterwards, but as their plane flies over Mississippi, they are buffeted by extreme turbulence and it seems possible that the plane may crash. Fearing that they may die, people begin to confess secrets: Dennis tells how he was a hit-and-run driver Dick tells how he took more than his salary from the group Jeff confesses to sleeping with Leslie, and also tells about Russell and Penny William confesses what happened to Penny, and that he loves her Silent Ed Vallencourt (John Fedevich) finally speaks up, and confesses that he's gay The plane makes it through the weather, and once the plane lands, William separates from the band, with Russell telling him to "write whatever you want." William eventually makes it to Rolling Stones' main office with plenty of notes, but no interview with Russell. He begs for the evening to get everything put together. Seeking advice, William calls up Lester, who tells him to be as honest and truthful as possible about what he saw. This results in an article about the band revealing everything from their infighting, to the confessions on the plane. In the end, Russell denies the story to the magazine's fact-checker, and William is sent home. At the airport, his sister Anita sees him, and offers to go on an adventure with him. In the end, she helps William get back to San Diego, and she and her mother make up. As Stillwater's tour ends, the band members go their separate ways. During a meal, a Band-Aid named Sapphire (Fairuza Balk) chastises Russell for causing Penny to almost kill herself, let alone killing William's story. Russell then calls Penny, claiming he wants to meet with her and make up. She gives him an address, but when Russell arrives, he realizes he is at William's house! Talking to William, Russell mentions that he did contact Rolling Stone and retracted his previous statement. William also takes the time to get what he never could while on the tour: an interview with Russell. Following these events, Stillwater goes on tour the following year, touring on their bus "Doris." Anita returns home to live with William and Elaine. William's article is published by Rolling Stone magazine. Penny Lane fulfills a dream, and heads off to live in Morocco for one year.

Dennis tells how he was a hit-and-run driver

Dick tells how he took more than his salary from the group

Jeff confesses to sleeping with Leslie, and also tells about Russell and Penny

William confesses what happened to Penny, and that he loves her

Silent Ed Vallencourt (John Fedevich) finally speaks up, and confesses that he's gay