movieId: 4565
title: American Ninja
year: 1985
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0088708/
ratingValue: 
directors: Sam Firstenberg
actors: Michael Dudikoff, Steve James, Judie Aronson, Guich Koock, John Fujioka, Don Stewart, John LaMotta, Tadashi Yamashita, Phillip Brock, Tony Carreon

synopsis:
Pvt. Joe Armstrong (Michael Dudikoff) chooses to enlist in the US army rather than go to prison and finds himself fighting off Black Star Order of Ninjas (and communist insurgents) on a base in the Philippines.
When he saves Patricia (Judie Aronson), the base colonel William Hickock's (Guich Koock) daughter, from kidnapping but loses everyone else in the platoon, Joe's popularity with his colleagues drops precipitously and he becomes the target of revenge of the Black Star Ninja (Tadashi Yamashita). The Black Star Ninja is working for a foreign player Ortega (Don Stewart) who is hijacking US weapons shipments for private sales in the Southeast Asian militant community.
Sgt Rinaldo (John LaMotta) was in charge of the platoon that was ambushed, but he was not touched by the rebels or the Ninjas & returns to the base to report the kidnapping to the Colonel. Later Armstrong returns with Patricia. Ortega employs an old Japanese soldier as his gardener, whom he found in the jungle (the soldier was unaware that the war had been over for many years). From flashbacks we know that this soldier taught Armstrong his Ninjutsu skills. While performing his daily chores, Cpl. Curtis Jackson (Steve James) antagonizes Joe and challenges him to a match. Joe easily wins, showing off his Ninjutsu skills and impresses Jackson, earning the respect of the others as well. Jackson gets the whole story from Joe: he has amnesia, but he always remembers his Ninjutsu moves, and that has helped him with his instinct for survival. Joe remembers running with various street gangs and mastering several exotic martial arts.
Patricia arrives back on the base and arranges a date night, Jackson and Charley Madison (Phil Brock) sneak him off the base, but they are caught during dinner by Rinaldo, who is having a business dinner with Ortega (meaning they're in league together). Ortega wants Joe dead. To ensure his elimination, Rinaldo leads him to an abandoned warehouse on the pretense of dropping off some supplies. Ninjas ambush Joe, but Joe quickly kills all of them. Somebody steals his truck and Joe chases him on motorbike. The driver tails Joe, crushing his bike and thinks he is dead. Joe, however, rides under the car. He is brought to the heart of Ortega's operation, which encompasses the Black Star ninja training camp. Ortega is paying the Black Star Order for weapons stolen from the Army. Ortega is smuggling weapons from the U.S. Army and selling them to the highest bidder. Joe is caught by Ninjas and fights, but later makes his escape thanks to Ortega's helper named Shinyuki (John Fujioka), the gardener who taught Joe his Ninjutsu. Joe is immediately placed under arrest by military police led by Sergeant Frankie "Private Stomper" (Richard Norton) upon his arrival at the base.
Jackson asks the MP duty sergeant, Sergeant First Class Chucky "Act so bad" Walowitz, what charges have been leveled at Joe and later protests to Rinaldo that the charges are not justified.
The black star Ninja leader sneaks into the MP holding cells that night, and kills all the stationed MP officers, including Specialist Phil "Hardcore" Norton, before trying to kill Joe. Joe escapes and challenges him to a duel before other MP officers arrive at the scene. One MP is found with a throwing star lodged in his head; this further implicates Joe as a murderer. Joe explains everything to Jackson, who brings Patricia along as well. Only Jackson, Charley, and Patricia believe that Joe is innocent of the charges he now faces. They tell Hickock everything they know about the hijacking and murders, but he scoffs at their story. After briskly dismissing them, Colonel Hickock meets Rinaldo privately, revealing that the colonel himself is Ortega's accomplice.
Joe is betrayed when Williams orders Rinaldo to finish him. The black star Ninja leader arrives at the house and kidnaps Patricia, while Ortega threatens Williams, who has been involved in the scheme the whole time. Williams wants to stop the latest shipment of missiles till the time things cool down, but Ortega is adamant on keeping the schedule to his customers. At the same time, Joe drives off with Rinaldo and his men on the trail. Joe's car clips Rinaldo's that sends him off course and into a tree, killing him instantly. Joe sneaks back into Ortega's, reuniting him with Shinyuki. It is revealed that Shinyuki, a former Japanese holdout soldier, adopted Joe at birth after the boy's parents died. Shinyuki trained him in the art of Ninjutsu before a bomb blast separates them both. Each has believed the other to be dead for years. Now Shinyuki completes Joe's training, and they launch a surprise attack on the Black Star training camp.
With the remaining time left, Shinyuki completes Joe's training and begin an assault on Ortega's base. Shinyuki dies in battle, as the Army officers arrive on the scene with Hickock leading the way. Hickock is killed by Ortega, and the black star Ninja leader is killed by Joe. Ortega leaves with Patricia in the chopper, but Joe rescues Patricia in time for Jackson to fire a missile at the helicopter, killing Ortega. The final scene shows Joe fulfilling his duties as an American Ninja as he lets Jackson catch Patricia.