movieId: 6586
title: American Wedding
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0328828/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jesse Dylan
actors: Jason Biggs, Seann William Scott, Alyson Hannigan, Eddie Kaye Thomas, Thomas Ian Nicholas, January Jones, Eugene Levy, Molly Cheek, Deborah Rush, Fred Willard

synopsis:
In a restaurant in East Great Falls, Michigan, Jim Levenstein (Jason Biggs) prepares to ask Michelle (Alyson Hannigan) to marry him when Jim's dad (Eugene Levy) calls to inform him he left the ring at home. As Jim tries to stall, he talks about the next step which Michelle interprets as spicing up their sex lives. She gets the impression that he wants a public sex act and proceeds to perform oral sex on him under the table. When Mr. Levenstein (Eugene Levy) arrives, Jim tries to hide the fact that he's being given a blow job under the table. Not knowing Michelle is under the table, Jim's dad expresses his excitement at the proposal. Then, after Michelle bumps her head under the table out of shock, all chaos ensues as Jim ends up exposed and has to hike his pants up quickly. Saving face, he swallows what's left of his pride and asks Michelle to marry him which she readily agrees. Jim has a night at the local bar with Michelle, Kevin and Finch to celebrate their engagement. During that night, it is revealed that Michelle likes to dance but Jim is a terrible dancer. Jim wishes to exclude Steve Stifler (Seann William Scott) from the wedding. Stifler notices the celebration party while passing and decides to crash what he thinks is a graduation party but is actually the engagement party.
He messes with the cake which ends up on his lap and Jim's as well. Jim tries to take his pants off to clean them and chaos ensues ending with Jim looking like he's having sex with dogs when Michelle's parents meet him for the first time. When Stifler realizes that Jim is getting married, he volunteers to organize the bachelor party which Kevin and Finch hadn't thought about but agrees that Stifler would be the perfect guy for such an occasion. Stifler insists on taking part, seeing an opportunity to have sex with the bridesmaids. They don't tell him however that he is not invited. Michelle is stressed but doesn't want to tell Jim about her worries, so Jim doesn't know what she really wants and he knows she'll want to dance and he's really bad at it. He shares these details to Kevin and Finch who offers their help. Looking for dancing lessons, Kevin and Finch meets Stifler and try to hint that he's not invited at the wedding. Jim goes to Stifler to try to explain why he's not invited. Stifler gets angry and screams at Jim while his football team surrounds them and scream with him. Stifler uses that moment to whisper that he knows how to dance, and he can teach Jim. They have a first lesson together and Jim asks Stifler to tone down his obnoxious personality in exchange for planning the bachelor party. Meanwhile, Finch has been following Michelle under disguise to learn more about her desires for the wedding. He finds out that Michelle's dream wedding dress is made by only one designer working for one store in Chicago. Michelle was struggling to find the dress and Jim wanted to surprise her.
Jim, Stifler, Paul Finch (Eddie Kaye Thomas), and Kevin Meyers (Thomas Ian Nicholas) travel to Chicago. The dress maker named Leslie isn't at the store. One of her colleagues agrees to give them the address of a few bars where they could find her.
Stifler unwittingly walks into a gay bar as the designer is supposed to be hanging out there, and his raucous behavior gets him into a dispute with several patrons. Stifler defeats Bear (Eric Allan Kramer) in a dance-off, who offers to provide strippers for the bachelor party. Dress designer Leslie (Reynaldo Gallegos) reveals himself and agrees to make the dress for Michelle. Michelle is very happy with the effort Jim put in for her dress. Michelle's parents Mary Flaherty (Deborah Rush) and Harold Flaherty (Fred Willard), who were initially skeptical of Jim. When they first met Jim, it looked like he and Stifler were performing sexual acts on the Flaherty's dogs. The dress episode has convinced Michelle's parents that they should give Jim a second chance and they schedule a private dinner. Jim lies to Stifler that everyone will be gone that night so he can have his private moment with Michelle's parents. Michelle's younger sister, Cadence (January Jones), flies in for the wedding after breaking up with her boyfriend because he would not take her virginity. Both Finch and Stifler are attracted to her, and in an effort to win her over, they each adopt the other's personality.
Finch believes Cadence is looking for the player type Casanova, while Stifler believes she is looking for a "decent" guy and avoids swearing and speaks of philosophy. The act works as it seduces both Cadence and her mother. When Finch realizes that Cadence is beginning to tire of the intellectual Stifler however, he starts to act immature, rude, and perverted: in other words, like the real Stifler. This change of attitude momentarily gets him the attention and favor of Cadence. Stifler arranges the bachelor party for Jim at his home but does not inform Jim, who unknowingly has arranged dinner with Michelle's parents at his home at the same time. Meanwhile, Jim begins to have doubts about marriage, worried that he has only ever really been with one woman. His father's awkward reassurances fail to convince Jim. Stifler, Finch, and Kevin break into Jim's parents' house to surprise him with the bachelor party and Bear's strippers, unaware Jim is bringing Michelle's parents over for dinner.
Not waiting for Jim, they get the party started and play Bondage and Submissive roles with the girls. When Jim arrives with Michelle's parents, Stifler and Finch realizes their mistake and they hide everyone. With assistance from Bear, who poses as a butler named "Mr. Belvedere", Jim nearly succeeds in keeping the activities a secret, until Michelle's mother opens a closet door and is shocked to find Kevin inside, blindfolded, stripped to his boxers, and tied to a chair. Stifler makes up an excuse to explain everything and tries to take the blame for it but Jim insists to take the blame himself which convinces Michelle's parents that Jim is willing to make a lot of efforts for their daughter and they give him their blessing.
Mary is touched by Stifler's gesture towards Jim and anoints him the ring bearer and hands over her mother's ring for safekeeping. In Grand Traverse County, Michigan, wedding preparations are underway, despite mishaps.
Michelle is concerned that Jim's paternal grandmother (Angela Paton) disapproves of the wedding because she is not Hebrew. Jim tries to explain to her that his grandmother is very old fashioned, but Michelle still takes it very personal. Jim shaves his testicles the night before the wedding at an attempt at personal grooming, but when he disposes the hair from the window, it gets sucked into the kitchen via the ventilator and decorates the entire wedding cake. Stifler accidentally feeds the rings to the Flaherty dogs (by mixing it with dog treats) and then has to take it out of dog poop. When he finally gets the ring back, he tries to sneak to his room to wash it but is intercepted by Michelle's parents. Mistaking the stool in Stifler's hand for a truffle, Michelle's mother, who loves chocolate, attempts to eat it, giving Stifler no other choice but to eat it himself to save face. Only Finch knows the truth and reacts accordingly. Cadence admits she likes Stifler but questions if he is pretending to be different around her. After Cadence agrees to sleep with Stifler, he inadvertently disrupts the walk-in refrigerator's power supply while retrieving a bottle of champagne in an attempt to seduce Cadence which kills the flowers. He gets in an argument with Finch and goes into full Stifler mode just as Cadence walks by and sees everything. She obviously cancels the encounter.
With the flowers destroyed, Jim is livid and asks Stifler to leave, and all the other guests, including Cadence, support Jim's decision, as she had also learned of his true personality and intentions. On his way home he sees the flower shop that provided the flowers for the wedding. He finds the owner's address and wakes her up in the middle of the night.
Feeling guilty for his thoughtless behavior, Stifler convinces the florist to put together a new batch of flowers. She claims the job is impossible since she had four people working for two days to do the first job. Stifler enlists the help of his football players and Bear, to put the wedding back on track. Jim and Michelle, who were very sad the night before, wakes up to the sound of Stifler leading his whole team into decorating the wedding hall. As a gesture of remorse, he also gives a rose to Cadence. Seeing the new display, Michelle and Jim forgive Stifler, and Cadence reconciles with him, seeing he does genuinely care about his friends, and agrees to have sex with him in a supply closet before the wedding.
Finch admits that Stifler was probably better for her anyway. Stifler, angry that he can't hate Finch after such a noble remark, tells Finch that he hates not hating him. Finch reminds him that he slept with Stifler's mom twice. Stifler says "Thank you" as a way to reveal that all the hatred is back. Stifler's presence is delayed by a brief thank-you meet Jim calls among his groomsmen, citing how he is grateful to have friends like them. Quickly returning to the hotel, Stifler hears someone in the supply closet and steps inside, unaware that Cadence was interrupted by wedding preparations and that the ushers. Meanwhile the ushers had placed Jim's grandmother in that closet to sustain her hostility about the wedding. Stifler only realizes this upon walk-in by Finch and Kevin, and by that time Stifler had already had sex with Grandmother, thinking she was Cadence. Grandmother becomes pleasant, particularly towards Stifler, making Michelle and Jim's dad unknowingly happy. Struggling to convey her feelings through her vows, Michelle asks Jim's dad for help. He explains that love is not just a feeling, but the actions they do for each other. She happily thanks and calls him dad. Despite the chaotic events leading up to it, Michelle and Jim get married. At the reception, the couple dances privately acknowledging their shared awkwardness and perversions that make them perfect for each other. Stifler dances with Cadence. Finch sits by himself when Stifler's mom (Jennifer Coolidge) arrives. Although agreeing they are over each other, Stifler's mom mentions having a hotel suite and invites Finch to join her.
The guys from high school end up spying on Stifler's mom and Finch having sex in the hot tub.