movieId: 1693
title: Amistad
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118607/
ratingValue: 
directors: Steven Spielberg
actors: Morgan Freeman, Nigel Hawthorne, Anthony Hopkins, Djimon Hounsou, Matthew McConaughey, David Paymer, Pete Postlethwaite, Stellan Skarsgård, Razaaq Adoti, Abu Bakaar Fofanah

synopsis:
The schooner La Amistad is carrying Africans captured from Sierra Leone and sold in Cuba into slavery in 1839. One of the slaves, Sengbe Pieh (Djimon Hounsou), mostly known by his slave name "Cinque", initiates a rebellion on the ship. Most of the crew are killed. The Africans keep the ship's owners alive, believing they can navigate the vessel back to West Africa. Two navigators, Pedro Montes and Jose Ruiz, are spared on condition they help sail the ship to Africa. Six weeks later, the vessel is low on food and fresh water when they sight land. Unsure of their location, a group take a boat to shore to fetch fresh water. La Amistad is found by a United States military vessel. The Spaniards had tricked the Africans, by making them sail up the Atlantic coast. Amistad is impounded by the U.S. revenue cutter Washington, and the mutineers are arrested. A complicated legal battle ensues over the slaves. United States Attorney William S. Holabird brings charges of piracy and murder against them. Those charges are dismissed in a criminal case because the killings occurred outside of United States territorial waters. A civil case then follows, with the Amistad Africans being claimed as property by Montes and Ruiz, and as salvage by two officers from the Washington.
The Africans are imprisoned while a court determines ownership of the vessel and whether the slaves will be freed. Great Britain, the United States and Spain have prohibited the international slave trade, but the Spanish owners claim the slaves were born on a Cuban plantation and are thus legal domestic slaves. In Washington, D.C., John Quincy Adams (Anthony Hopkins), former President and sitting member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Massachusetts, meets leading abolitionists Theodore Joadson (Morgan Freeman), a freed slave, and activist Lewis Tappan (Stellan Skarsgard). Intent on gaining the Amistad Africans' freedom, the men seek Adams' help with the court case. Adams claims he neither condemns nor condones slavery. Adams is reluctant to get involved. The Spanish government of Queen Isabella II intervenes in support of Montes and Ruiz, under the Treaty of 1795, also known as Pinckney's Treaty.
The current President of the United States, Martin Van Buren (Nigel Hawthorne), is under pressure by Spanish Queen Isabella II (Anna Paquin), who demands compensation for the ship and the market value of the slaves. To avoid a diplomatic incident, President Martin Van Buren directs his Secretary of State John Forsyth to support the Spanish claim. At a preliminary hearing, the Africans are charged with "insurrection on the high seas". The case has conflicting claims of property ownership by Spain, the United States, the Spanish owners of the slaves and of La Amistad, and the American captain and first mate of the US vessel that took the ship into custody, as laws of the sea entitle them to salvage rights, including the slaves. The abolitionists enlist the help of an attorney specializing in property law: Roger Sherman Baldwin (Matthew McConaughey). Baldwin and the abolitionists, along with Josiah Willard Gibbs, Sr. (Austin Pendleton), a professor of linguistics, try speaking with the Amistad Africans, but neither side can comprehend the other. Baldwin suspects the slaves are not Cubans but Africans who have been kidnapped and transported illegally as part of the banned transatlantic slave trade. As the hearings drag on, Baldwin and Joadson approach Adams for advice. Adams advises them that, in court, the side with the best story usually wins. Unable to tell Adams what their story is, they realize it is imperative they communicate with the Africans. At the city docks they find an African sailor in the Royal Navy, James Covey (Chiwetel Ejiofor), who speaks an African language. Using Covey as a translator, Baldwin and his companions speak with Cinque. He is allowed to give his account, through Covey, in the courtroom. Cinque claims that he was a farmer and family man, kidnapped by slave-hunters and taken to Lomboko, an illegal slave facility in Sierra Leone. He and hundreds of other captured Africans were loaded onto the transatlantic slave-ship Tecora. Upon arriving in Cuba, Cinque was sold at a slave market and purchased by the owners of La Amistad. Baldwin calls Captain Charles Fitzgerald of the Royal Navy's West Africa Squadron to corroborate Cinqué's testimony. He speculates that the captives were taken aboard the Tecora at the notorious slave fort Lomboko. Under cross-examination, Fitzgerald admits there is no direct evidence of Lomboko's existence. District Attorney William S. Holabird (Pete Postlethwaite) and Secretary of State John Forsyth (David Paymer) press their case for respecting property rights, dismissing Cinque's story as fiction. While exploring La Amistad for evidence, Baldwin finds a notebook that gives accounts of their illegal slave-trading. Baldwin and Joadson find documents which prove the captives were kidnapped from Sierra Leone and transported across the Atlantic aboard the Portuguese slave ship Tecora before being transferred to La Amistad in Havana. The judge is impressed and signals his intention to dismiss the U.S. and Spanish governments' case and release the captives. To preclude this possibility, Van Buren replaces the judge with a younger man, Coglin, who he believes will be easier to manipulate. Presenting the notebook as evidence, Baldwin calls expert witnesses, including Captain Fitzgerald (Peter Firth), a British naval officer assigned to patrol the West African coastline to enforce the British Empire's anti-slavery policies. Judge Coglin (Jeremy Northam) dismisses all claims of ownership of the Africans. He orders the arrest of the Amistad's owners and authorizes the United States to convey the Amistad Africans back to Africa. Speaking with the Spanish Ambassador to Washington, Senator John C. Calhoun (Arliss Howard) from South Carolina attacks President Van Buren. Stressing the economic importance of slaves in the South, Calhoun suggests that if the government frees the Amistad Africans the South will go to war. President Van Buren orders the case appealed to the US Supreme Court, which is dominated by Southern slaveholder justices. Joadson and Baldwin break the news to Cinque. Needing a knowledgeable ally, Baldwin and Joadson meet again with John Quincy Adams. Aware that Cinque refuses to talk to Baldwin, Adams invites Cinque to his home. After speaking with him, Adams decides to assist the case.
At the Supreme Court, John Quincy Adams passionately defends the Africans. The court authorizes the release of the Africans and their transportation to Africa, if they so wish. Cinque bids farewell to his American companions. British Royal Marines assault the Lomboko Slave Fortress, freeing Africans from its dungeons. With the fortress evacuated, Captain Fitzgerald orders it destroyed. Van Buren is discredited by his failure to prevent the release of the Africans, and loses the 1840 election to William Henry Harrison. The Spanish government continues to press its claim for compensation up until the American Civil War.
The captions say that Cinqué returns to Africa, but is unable to reunite with his family due to civil war in Sierra Leone.