movieId: 2880
title: Armour of God
year: 1986
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0091431/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jackie Chan, Eric Tsang
actors: Jackie Chan, Alan Tam, Lola Forner, Rosamund Kwan, Ken Boyle, John Ladalski, Robert O'Brien, Bozidar Smiljanic, Anthony Chan

synopsis:
Jackie / Asian Hawk (Jackie Chan) is an adventurer with a mercenary streak. Jackie used to perform in a band with his friends Alan (Alan Tam) and Lorelei (Rosamund Kwan) before he was kicked out of the band by Alan, who wanted Lorelei for himself. After having his heart broken by Lorelei, Jackie became a mercenary and a soldier of fortune. Jackie steals a sword from an African tribe that is one of the five pieces of a valuable armor known as the Armor of God. Jackie steals the sword in the middle of a ceremony and then is able to escape using his advanced martial arts fighting skills.
Alan is still a successful singer, and Lorelei is a renowned fashion-designer. A cult headed by the Grand Wizard wants to complete the Armor of God. He learns from his 2nd in command Lama (John Ladalski) that Jackie still has feelings for Lorelei and kidnapping Lorelei would get Jackie to do their bidding. Jackie tries to sell the Armor of God via auction. He has a secretly placed artificial bidder whose job is to increase the bids by bidding a few hundred dollars more than the highest bidder. Although unexpected, the armor manages to get an astronomical bid of $400,000 by May Bannon (Lola Forner). Lorelei is kidnapped from a fashion show and at the same time Alan was performing in a concert of his own. Happy with his grand fortune Jackie goes back to his hotel where he discovers an entire bunch of messages from Alan informing Jackie of his arrival. When Jackie and Alan meet, Alan out of desperation (although unwillingly) tells Jackie of an evil cult which has kidnapped Lorelei as a means of acquiring Jackie's services and are demanding the Armor of God as ransom. Jackie reminds Alan that everything is over between him and Lorelei. Alan says that despite their differences they are still childhood friends. Jackie decides to aid Alan in rescuing Lorelei from the evil religious cult that has stolen her in hopes of Asian Hawk delivering the last three pieces of the Armor to them as they have the other two. With this information, Jackie is able to convince May Bannon and her father (Bozidar Smiljanic) to borrow the three pieces with the promise that Jackie would return with all five to May's father. Count Banon agrees on the condition that May accompanies them. The 5 pieces are the Belt of Truth, the Breastplate of Righteousness, the Shield of Faith, the Helmet of Salvation, and the Sword of the Spirit. The armor was used by the Crusaders in the dark ages to defeat the barbarians and became a symbol of their victory. Count says that there are cults in the world who believe that by destroying all 5 pieces of the armor, they can attain great power. Soon, Jackie, Alan, and May start the quest of bringing the whole set of the Armor of God. The trio goes to the marketplace where the kidnappers will be at. May has a rifle and will watch Jackie and Alan do. May is an expert marksman and came in third in the European pistol championship. Alan walks around the marketplace carrying a bag, that tricks the kidnappers, thinking it's the Armor of God. Soon, one of the kidnappers approach Alan and shows him a picture of Lorelei in captivity. Alan follows the kidnappers, and Jackie starts moving around Alan. One of the kidnappers opens Alan's bag, and it turns out that it wasn't the Armor of God.
Jackie bursts into action and fights the first two kidnappers. Jackie and Alan chase the first two kidnappers, but the kidnappers had a bunch of men hiding. Jackie and Alan are being chased and starts a car chase. Alan starts to worry about Lorelei and the Armor of God, but Alan gets fed up with Jackie when Jackie said it would not have saved her. During the car chase, Alan complains that some men are gaining on Jackie, so, Jackie makes a U-turn and activates turbo and soon some men were wrecked. Jackie and Alan were blocked in a bridge, so, Jackie starts to use a hidden vehicle in the car, soon, the men were wrecked. Jackie, Alan and May travel into Yugoslavia to find the cult's monastery.
Alan asks a waiter what the kidnappers do. The waiter said that the kidnappers buy food and takes some women on-board. Jackie, Alan, and May decided to go into the kidnappers' place, and tries to blend in to be like people on-board. The kidnappers inject Lorelei an injection that will put her under a spell for three days and bring back the Armor of God back to the kidnappers' place. The kidnappers knew something suspicious about the people and knew they would try to rescue Lorelei. Jackie, Alan, and May bring Lorelei back to their place. At May's rest home, Lorelei drugs Alan and has him steal the three armor pieces. In the kidnappers' place, Jackie finds Alan and Lorelei tied up, Jackie frees them and invades the kidnappers. As Alan and Lorelei make their escape, Jackie fends off against the cult members before discovering the Armor of God in a cave. Before he gets a chance to take the armor, he encounters the Grand Wizard, who unleashes his four female assassins on the adventurer. Exploiting their high-heeled shoes as their weakness, Jackie defeats the assassins in a grueling fight. Jackie is then surrounded by the rest of the Grand Wizard's men, but he reveals a vest filled with sticks of dynamite under his jacket, threatening to blow himself up with the monastery. After a couple of bluffs, he accidentally lights up all the dynamite fuses. Discarding the explosives, he runs for his life as the detonations cave in the monastery, burying the entire cult and the Armor of God. He runs out of a cave and spots a hot-air balloon with Alan, Lorelei, and May aboard. In a daring move, Jackie does a base jump off the cave and lands on top of the balloon, ending the movie.