movieId: 1784
title: As Good as It Gets
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119822/
ratingValue: 
directors: James L. Brooks
actors: Jack Nicholson, Helen Hunt, Greg Kinnear, Cuba Gooding Jr., Skeet Ulrich, Shirley Knight, Yeardley Smith, Lupe Ontiveros, Jill the Dog, Timer the Dog

synopsis:
Melvin Udall (Jack Nicholson) is a misanthrope who works at home as a best-selling novelist in New York City. He suffers from obsessive-compulsive disorder as he uses soap bars only once to wash his hands, uses paper towels to touch public restroom faucets and door handles, avoids stepping on sidewalk cracks, has rituals with switches and locks (which he has to open and shut a precise number of time each time he operates them), sticks to rigid routines. Paired with his misanthropy, alienates nearly everyone with whom he interacts. Melvin's neighbors cannot even stand the sight of him in the building. He eats breakfast at the same table in the same restaurant every day using disposable plastic utensils he brings with him due to his pathological Mysophobia (an extreme and irrational fear of germs, dirt, and contamination). If there are customers sitting at his table, Melvin will be mean to them, till they get up and leave.
He takes an interest in his waitress, Carol Connelly (Helen Hunt), the only server at the restaurant who can tolerate his behavior. One day, Melvin's apartment neighbor, gay artist Simon Bishop (Greg Kinnear), starts working with a new model, Vincent Lopiano (Skeet Ulrich). Vincent uses the opportunity to case Simon's apartment and allow his friends inside, who assault and nearly kill Simon during the robbery. Simon's agent, Frank Sachs (Cuba Gooding Jr.), intimidates Melvin into caring for Simon's Griffon Bruxellois, Verdell, while he is hospitalized. Now, Melvin had once put Verdell in the garbage chute of the building since it went urinating in the hallway.
Melvin is a bit racist and had once insulted Frank, for being a colored person. Although he initially does not enjoy caring for the dog, Melvin becomes emotionally attached to it.
He simultaneously receives more attention from Carol. When Bishop is released from the hospital, Melvin is unable to cope emotionally with returning the dog. Even Simon can see that Verdell pines for Melvin. Melvin tolerates a neighborly relationship with Simon so he can continue to see Verdell. Melvin's compulsive need for routine and aversion to change is aggravated when Carol decides to work closer to her home in Brooklyn so she can care for her acutely asthmatic son Spencer "Spence" Connelly (Jesse James). Carol's mother Beverly (Shirley Knight) stays with them to take care of Spence while Carol works. Melvin cannot adjust to another waitress and the cafe manager Brian (Shane Black) kicks Melvin out for being rude to his waitresses. Melvin visits Carol at her home and arranges to pay for her son's medical expenses and a full time at-home care if Carol agrees to continue working at her previous restaurant in Manhattan. Melvin asks his publisher's husband (who is Dr. Martin Bettes (Harold Ramis)), to personally take of Spencer. Martin assures Carol that Spencer will feel a lot better under his care.
While Carol is overwhelmed by Melvin's generosity, thanking him profusely, she is suspicious of his motives, declaring emphatically that she will never have sex with him. A humiliated Melvin admonishes her that she, not he, has made the situation personal. Meanwhile, Simon's injuries, lack of medical insurance, and high medical bills cause him to go bankrupt and fall into depression. Simon's assault and rehabilitation, coupled with Verdell's preference for Melvin, causes Simon to lose his creative muse. Simon is approaching bankruptcy due to his medical bills. Simon's agent, Frank Sachs convinces Simon to go to Baltimore and ask his estranged parents for money. Simon's parents had disinherited him for being homosexual. Because Frank is too busy to take the injured Simon to Baltimore himself, Melvin reluctantly agrees to do so. Frank lends Melvin his Saab 900 convertible for the trip. Irrationally fearing Simon may make a pass at him (his cover story), Melvin invites Carol along on the trip, reminding her that she owes him a favor, and she reluctantly accepts. She reluctantly accepts, and relationships among the three develop. Melvin says that he needs Carol to chaperon Simon. Relationships develop among the three on the trip as Simon discusses the root of his estrangement with his parents, who cannot accept his homosexuality; Carol commiserates; and Melvin's acerbic remarks gradually become more sympathetic. Once in Baltimore, Carol persuades Melvin to take her out to have dinner when she learns that back home Spencer went outside to play soccer.
Melvin tells her that her "no sex oath" made him start taking medication to become a better man. When Carol presses Melvin to admit that he invited her on the trip because he had feelings for her and hoped to hear that Melvin was attracted to her and wanted to sleep with her. However, an embarrassed and fumbling Melvin again clumsily deflects, awkwardly responding that he invited her along to maybe have sex with Simon to cure his homosexuality.
Upset at the implication that her sexual favors are for sale, Carol abruptly leaves. She goes to Simon's hotel room for consolation, and their emotional intimacy rekindles his creative desire to paint. He sketches Carol, nearly nude, making her feel her femininity appreciated in a nonsexual way. With confidence inspired by Carol, Simon briefly reconnects with his mother, without asking her for money, telling her that he will be fine. After returning to New York, Carol tells Melvin that he disparages her, and she does not want him in her life anymore. Since Simon is still broke and his apartment has been sublet, Melvin arranges for Simon to stay in his spare bedroom. On learning of Melvin's enormous gesture and sign of growth, Carol regrets her harshness and calls Melvin to apologize. The relationship between Melvin and Carol remains complicated until Simon persuades Melvin to declare his love for her. Melvin goes to see Carol, who hesitantly agrees to try and establish a relationship with him. She is encouraged by her mother, who declares that no relationship is perfect. The film ends with Melvin and Carol walking together. As he opens the door at an early morning pastry shop for Carol, he realizes that he has stepped on a crack in the pavement but does not seem to mind.