movieId: 26183
title: Asterix and Cleopatra
year: 1968
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0062687/
ratingValue: 
directors: René Goscinny, Albert Uderzo
actors: Roger Carel, Jacques Morel, Micheline Dax, Jacques Balutin, Jacques Bodoin, Maurice Chevit, Pierre Tornade, Claude Dasset

synopsis:
The incident begins with an argument between Cleopatra (Micheline Dax), Queen of Egypt, and Julius Caesar (Jean Parédès), in which Caesar belittles the accomplishments of the Egyptian people. Cleopatra claims that Egyptians have built monuments that have lasted for thousands of years. Caesar claims that all of the monuments were built a long time ago and those skills have now been lost to the sands of time. Infuriated, Cleopatra makes a wager with Caesar promising to build a new palace in Alexandria within three months. Cleopatra summons Edifis (George Birt), who claims to be the best architect in Egypt. She promises Edifis that if he builds the palace on time he will be covered with gold; if he fails, he will be a meal for the sacred crocodiles. A worried Edifis thinks he needs magic to help him and enlists the help of the Gauls, Asterix (Roger Carel), Obelix (Jacques Morel), Getafix (John Prim), and Dogmatix. Edifis travels to the Gaul village and asks Getafix to come with him to Egypt. Asterix and Obelix go along and bring Dogmatix with them.
On the way to Egypt, their boat is attacked by pirates, but Asterix and Obelix defeat the pirates and sink their ship.
Edifis is a terrible architect and all of his buildings in Egypt are very badly designed. Artifis is Edifis's rival and offers to work on the palace together. But Edifis refuses to work together with Artifis as he considers Artifis as a cruel person and a schemer.
Thanks to Getafix and his magic potion, the work goes forward on schedule, despite multiple attempts by Edifis's archival, Artifis, to sabotage the construction after Edifis says he doesn't want to get help of them. Artifis tells the workers to demand less whipping, which would slow construction. However, Getafix gives the workers magic potion.
Artifis bribes the stone-delivery man to throw his quarry away, before Obelix beats him up, causing him to reveal the truth.
A henchman tries to lock the Gauls inside a pyramid, but Dogmatix helps him find his way out.
The henchman then hires the pirates to stop the Gauls from bringing the cut stones to Alexandria, but the pirates sink their own boats after seeing the Gauls in charge of the stone ships. Artifis tries to frame the Gauls by sending a poisoned cake to Cleopatra. Cleopatra's taster falls very ill after eating the cake and she summons the Gauls. Getafix makes an antidote enabling the Gauls to eat the cake without any issues. He then cures the taster and claims eating too much rich food was giving him a bad stomach.
Edifis is kidnapped and hidden in a sarcophagus in the house of Artifis, but Obelix frees him. Artfis and his henchman are forced to work on the palace, but without magic potion. Just before the palace is due to be completed, Caesar intervenes by sending 3 mercenaries to try to arrest the Gauls, after he realizes the three Gauls are in Egypt when a spy disguises himself as a worker and sees the effects of the magic potion.
The 3 mercenaries manage to capture Getafix and Caesar locks him up in the dungeons. Asterix and Obelix reach the dungeons and free Getafix.
Now, Caesar sends in his legions to stop the work on the palace. The Gauls fight off the Roman soldiers, but the commanding officer proceeds to shell the building with his catapults. In desperation, Asterix and Dogmatix deliver the news to Cleopatra. A furious Cleopatra then hurries to the construction site to berate Caesar. Caesar's legions are required to fix the damage they caused (without any magic potion to help them) and the palace is successfully completed on time. Cleopatra wins her bet and covers Edifis with gold. Edifis and Artifis reconcile and agree to build pyramids together, and Cleopatra gives Getafix some papyrus manuscripts from the Library of Alexandria as a gift.