movieId: 2683
title: Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0145660/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jay Roach
actors: Mike Myers, Heather Graham, Michael York, Robert Wagner, Rob Lowe, Seth Green, Mindy Sterling, Verne Troyer, Elizabeth Hurley, Gia Carides

synopsis:
In 1999, time-displaced 1960s British spy Austin Powers (Mike Meyers) enjoys his honeymoon with his wife, Vanessa Kensington (Elizabeth Hurley). However, Vanessa is soon revealed to be a Fembot controlled by Dr. Evil (Mike Myers). Austin finds that when he fiddles with the TV remote, it also influences Vanessa's actions.
Vanessa attacks Austin, then self-destructs. Austin grieves briefly before realizing he is single again and can have sex without commitment. NATOs monitoring facility observes the return of Dr. Evil from space. Its 1999 & Evil has been in space for 2 years after he escaped in his spaceship post the failure of his plan to put a nuclear bomb at the center of the Earth. Dr Evil reunites with his estranged son, Scott (Seth Green), while he appears on The Jerry Springer Show. Scott tells the audience that his father is the head of a world wide evil organization with aspirations o world domination.
Scott is frustrated to see his father when he arrives on the show. Dr Evil says that he abandoned Scott as he was not evil enough. A fight ensues between multiple people on the show when an audience member calls Dr Evil a freak. Basil Exposition (Michael York) orders Austin to a photo-shoot with Rebecca Romijn-Stamos. He also meets Ivana Humpalot at the shoot, who is a Russian agent & who is suspected to be working for Dr Evil. At Dr. Evils Seattle Space Needle headquarters, Dr. Evil is presented with a 1/8 clone of himself Mini-Me. # 2 (Robert Wagner) also reveals the enormous profits they have made by legitimately investing in a startup called "Starbucks". Number 2 wants to redirect the company's resources from their evil schemes into Starbucks.
However, Dr. Evil is unimpressed and unveils his latest plan, a time machine to go back to the 60's and steal Austin Powers Mojo. Dr Evil considers Austin's Mojo to be the main reason why he has been able to defeat him for all these years.
Number 2 suggests using the knowledge of the future to play the stock market, while Scott suggests going into the past and killing Austion, but Dr Evil dismisses both suggestions. Dr. Evil and Mini-Me go back to 1969 (2 years after Austin was frozen) and meet a younger # 2 (Rob Lowe) and Frau Farbissina (Mindy Sterling). His HQ is a hollowed-out volcano on an uninhabited island. Dr Evil reveals that this time he has an operative inside the Ministry of Defense.
A disgruntled Scottish Guard called Fat Bastard (again, Mike Myers) is the MOD operative, bribed to extract Austin's Mojo from his frozen body at the Ministry of Defense Cryogenic Chamber.
British intelligence warns Austin that one of Dr. Evil's agents is after him. As Fat bastard steals the Mojo in 60's, Austin finds it missing in 1999 while having sex with a Russian agent Ivana Humpalot (Kristen Johnston), after she admitted that Dr Evil had sent her to kill Austin. The MOD sends Austin to 1969 using a time-traveling Volkswagen New Beetle. Austin arrives at his London pad and with CIA agent, Felicity Shagwell (Heather Graham), escapes another assassination attempt by Dr. Evils operative named Robin Spitz-Swallows (Gia Carides). Austin sees the assassin in Robin's eyes and turns at the last minute, so that the knife thrown at him strikes Robin.
However, the two of them are chased by Mustafa (Will Ferrell), yet another of Dr. Evil's henchmen, and when caught he reveals the existence of a secret volcano lair. Before he can divulge its location, Mini-Me causes him to fall from a cliff.
Examining photographs from the crime scene, Austin discovers Fat Bastard stole his Mojo. Felicity wants to have sex with Austin, but he can't as he doesn't have his Mojo. Evil drinks Austin's Mojo & has sex with Fran & she gets pregnant & it is implicated that Scott is the offspring. Scott, Evil's real son, also travels back in time. Evil's plan now is to hold world ransom to a laser he has put on the moon. Austin and Felicity get to know each other, but when Felicity propositions him for sex, he turns her down because of his lost Mojo. Under MOD instructions to implant a homing device into Fat Bastard, Felicity has sex with him, enabling her to plant the device in his anus. Fat Bastard forces it out of his bowels into a toilet, but a stool sample reveals traces of a vegetable that only grows on one Caribbean island. Austin & Fecility arrive in Caribbean & are captured by Evil. Felicity frees them by flashing the guards who fall into the volcano lava. Evil leaves for moon with Mini me to install the laser & Austin follows with Felicity in Apollo 11. Austin fights Mini Me & flushes him into space. Austin then confronts Dr. Evil, who gives him a choice: save the world or Felicity, who is locked in a chamber with poison gas.
As Austin confronts Dr. Evil, the giant laser is fired, but Austin manages to divert it and save Washington D.C., although Felicity is killed by poison gas. However, using Dr. Evils time portal Austin travels back 10 min and meets up with himself to save both the world and Felicity. Dr. Evil initiates the self-destruct mechanism of the Moon base and escapes after throwing Austin's Mojo into the air. Both Austins fail to catch it and it is destroyed. Felicity points out that all the things Austin has done show that he never lost his Mojo. They escape through the time portal to 1999. Fat Bastard makes another attempt to assassinate Austin but is kicked in the crotch by Felicity. Finally, Dr. Evil recovers Mini-Me from space and once again vows to "get" Austin Powers. On The Jerry Springer Show, Scott learns he is the love child of Dr. Evil and Frau Farbissina, much to his delight.
There are two Austins in 1999 as both Austins escaped Dr. Evil's moon base using the time machine, Austin #1 finds Felicity sleeping with Austin #2, who claims that since he and Austin are the same person, he is not cheating.