movieId: 1517
title: Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118655/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jay Roach
actors: Mike Myers, Elizabeth Hurley, Michael York, Mimi Rogers, Robert Wagner, Seth Green, Fabiana Udenio, Mindy Sterling, Paul Dillon, Charles Napier

synopsis:
In 1967, somewhere outside Las Vegas, Dr Evil has his underground lair. Dr Evil had assembled the world's top assassins to kill Austin Powers, but they all failed. Dr Evil eliminates all of them except Mustafa (Will Ferrell) and Frau Farbissina. British spy Austin Powers (Mike Myers) is a style icon of the 1960's, but with really bad teeth. Austin is popular with the ladies who go mad with his charm. Mrs. Kensington is Austin's sidekick. Basil Exposition (Michael York) is Austin's colleague at the agency who helps him with intelligence and planning his missions. Basil informs Austin that Dr. Evil plans to be at his nightclub that night. Austin attempts to assassinate his nemesis, Dr. Evil (Mike Myers), in his own nightclub (the Electric Psychedelic Pussycat Swingers Club). Dr. Evil (and his car Mr. Bigglesworth) escapes by launching himself in a space rocket disguised as a Bob's Big Boy statue, and Cryogenically freezing himself until the time when free love no longer reigned and greed and corruption ruled again. Powers volunteers to be put into Cryostasis to be revived when Dr. Evil returns. Thirty years later, in 1997, Dr. Evil returns with new plans for world domination, discovering his henchman Number 2 (No. 2) (Robert Wagner) has transformed Evil's empire into Virtucon, a multi-billion-dollar enterprise. Virutcon moved from chemicals into Telecommunications and now owns cable networks in 38 states, and a steel mill in Cleveland. They also own shipping, oil refineries, all over the country.
Dr Evil eliminates Mustafa as it was due to his mistake that Mr Bigglesworth lost all his hair during the unfreezing process.
Paddy O'Brien (Paul Dillon) and Random Task are Dr. Evil's new henchmen. Commander Gilmore (Charles Napier), head of NORAD (North American Aerospace Defense Command), learns from tracking satellites that the Big Boy statue in space has returned to Earth and knows Dr Evil is back. Gilmore travels to London to activate Austin Powers. Having learned of Dr. Evil's return, the British Ministry of Defense unfreezes Powers. Austin is shocked to find that the cold war is over and now the West is working with Russia, represented by General Borschevsky (Elya Baskin). Though already wealthy, Dr. Evil proposes several plans to threaten the world for more money but finds each of them have happened naturally during his absence. Stuff like threatening the Royal Family of Britain to expose the affair of Prince Charles or punching a hole in the Ozone layer using lasers and increasing skin cancer rates over the world unless the world pays him a hefty ransom.
He ultimately falls back on his usual plan to steal nuclear weapons and hold the world hostage for $1 million. He increases his demand to $100 billion when he learns that the value of the dollar has fallen due to inflation and even Virtucon makes over $9 Billion every year. Later, he also discovers that henchman Frau Farbissina (Mindy Sterling) has used a sample of Evil's semen to artificially create his son, Scott Evil (Seth Green), now a Generation Y teenager. Scott resents his father's absence and resists his attempts to get closer to him, despite Dr. Evil's attempts to get closer to him through therapy. Austin is acclimatized to the year 1997 with the help of agent Vanessa Kensington (Elizabeth Hurley), the daughter of his sidekick in the 1960s, Mrs. Kensington (Mimi Rogers). Vanessa asks Austin not to call her "Baby".
Powers quickly finds his free love credo of the 1960s to be out of touch with the 1990s and is unable to turn Vanessa onto his charms. Vanessa is disgusted by Austin's overt attempts to get her into bed and declares that she will never have sex with him. Vanessa is super organized and disciplined, much unlike Austin.
Later, the two pose as a married couple in a Las Vegas hotel. Vanessa says that a lot of Virtucon executives are staying there and Virtucon is suspected to be connected to Dr. Evil. Austin meets No. 2's Italian secretary, Alotta Fagina (Fabiana Udenio). Paddy attempts to kill Austin the hotel's bathroom, but he captures Paddy and interrogates him to learn who Number 2 works for. Vanessa calls her mother in London, who tells her that Austin is a very caring man, and in the 1960s every man wanted to be him, and every woman wanted to be with him. That night Austin takes Vanessa out on a date, and she finally gets to see the fun side of him. Austin refuses to have sex with Vanessa as she was very drunk. Powers later breaks into her penthouse suite for reconnaissance and fornicates with Alotta. He discovers plans for Dr. Evil's "Project Vulcan", which aims to drill a nuclear warhead into the Earth's molten core and trigger volcanic eruptions worldwide. Vanessa finds Austin's real identity through his ID card, which she finds after he removes his clothes.
Dr. Evil, learning that Powers is back and, on his trail, creates a series of seductive identical female robots (called Fem-bots) that will lure Powers with their charm before killing him. Austin apologizes to Vanessa for the affair with Alotta and vows to only be with her. Later the couple infiltrates Dr. Evil's headquarters but are captured by his henchman, Random Task. After Dr. Evil makes his demands to the world, he reveals that even after receiving the money he will still proceed with Project Vulcan. He then places Powers and Vanessa in a death trap that they easily escape from. Powers instructs her to get help, while he eludes and destroys the Fem-Bots by performing a striptease which arouses them so much, their heads explode. Meanwhile, Vanessa returns with British forces. Powers finds the doomsday device and deactivates it at the last moment. He later finds Dr. Evil in the main chamber along with Alotta Fagina who is holding Vanessa hostage, but Number 2 appears, betrays Dr. Evil, and offers to make a deal with Powers. Dr. Evil apparently kills Number 2 and makes his escape back to his rocket, setting off the base's self-destruct system. Vanessa knocks Alotta unconscious and escapes with Powers as the lair explodes. Powers and Vanessa are later married, but during their honeymoon they are attacked by Random Task. Powers subdues the assassin, and the couple adjourns to their balcony to have wild sex. Noticing a rather bright star, Powers pulls out a telescope to discover that it is in fact Dr. Evil's cryogenic chamber in which he vows revenge.