movieId: 5481
title: Austin Powers in Goldmember
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0295178/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jay Roach
actors: Mike Myers, Beyoncé, Seth Green, Michael York, Robert Wagner, Mindy Sterling, Verne Troyer, Michael Caine, Fred Savage, Diane Mizota

synopsis:
In 2002 Dr Evil has again returned from space with Mini-Me. Number 2 (Robert Wagner) outlines his plan to expand the business empire by converting the company into a Hollywood talent agency. Number 2 says that by charging 9% (instead of the traditional 10%) he has been able to sign stars such as George Clooney, Julia Robert and Leonardo Di Caprio. Number 2 has a new assistant named Number 3. In a new lair behind the famous Hollywood sign, Dr. Evil (Mike Meyers) outlines his newest plan to his minions: he will go back in time to 1975 and bring back Johan Van Der Smut (Mike Meyers). Johan lost his genitalia in a smelting accident, and is known by the alias "Goldmember". Frau Farbissina (Mindy Sterling) is Dr. Evil's loud-mouthed female henchman. Goldmember developed a cold fusion unit for a tractor beam which Dr. Evil names Preparation H, not to be confused by the well-known product of the same name. He intends to use the tractor beam to pull a meteor (named Midas-22, made of solid gold) into the Earth to strike the polar ice caps and cause global flooding. However, moments after revealing this plan Austin Powers (Mike Meyers) and the British Secret Service attack and arrest Dr. Evil. Dr Evil is sentenced to 400 years in prison.
Austin is knighted for his services, but is disappointed when his father, the famous super-spy Nigel Powers (Michael Caine), fails to attend the event. At a party to celebrate his knighthood he sings a song with the band Ming Tea and later meets two Japanese twins named Fook Mi (Diane Mizota) and Fook Yu (Carrie Ann Inaba) and is about to have a threesome with them when Basil Exposition (Michael York) informs Austin that his father has been kidnapped, the only clue that the crew of his yacht have had their genitalia painted gold. In search of answers, Austin visits the imprisoned Dr. Evil, who tells him that Goldmember is behind the abduction. Dr. Evil antagonizes Austin by reminding him that Nigel was also absent when Austin was given the title of "International Man of Mystery" during their British Intelligence academy graduation, an event that angered Dr. Evil as he had the top grades in the class. Traveling to 1975, Austin infiltrates Goldmember's roller disco club Studio 69 and meets up with Foxxy Cleopatra (Beyonce Knowles), an old flame and FBI agent who is undercover as a disco singer. With Foxxy's help, Austin locates his father but is unable to rescue him. Goldmember takes Nigel with him through Dr. Evil's time machine into 2002 and leaves his golden clad henchman to kill Austin. Foxxy helps Austin escape and asks to accompany him to the future in an effort to save his father and exact revenge upon Goldmember for murdering her partner. In 2002, Dr. Evil and Mini-Me (Verne Troyer) instigate a riot in their prison, allowing them to escape. A British Intelligence mole named Number 3 (Fred Savage), who coincidentally has a large mole on his face, informs Austin that the doctor has moved to a new lair near Tokyo - a giant submarine shaped like Dr. Evil. Austin and Foxxy fly to Tokyo and confront one of Dr. Evil's henchman, Fat Bastard (Mike Meyers), now a sumo wrestler. After a humorous fight between Austin and Fat Bastard, Foxxy arrests Fat Bastard who tells them that a Japanese businessman, Mr. Roboto (Nobu Matsuhisa), is working on a device for Dr. Evil and Goldmember. Austin and Foxxy later meet with Mr. Roboto, who pleads ignorance about Nigel's whereabouts. Unconvinced, Austin and Foxxy infiltrate Roboto's factory where the command unit for the tractor beam is being loaded in Goldmember's car, and Roboto hands Goldmember a golden key needed to activate the beam. Foxxy confronts Goldmember while Austin attempts to free Nigel, but Goldmember escapes with the command unit and flees to Dr. Evil's sub. Unable to settle their differences, Nigel and Austin part ways when they disagree on how to deal with the situation. Meanwhile, Dr. Evil's son, Scott Evil (Seth Green), has become increasingly evil in an attempt to prove himself to his father, to the point that he too is going bald. Scott presents his father with sharks with laser beams, a request that had gone unfulfilled in the first film. Dr. Evil replaces Mini-Me with Scott as his favored son; the rejected Mini-Me defects and joins Austin. Austin, Foxxy and Mini-Me infiltrate the submarine, but Austin is captured. Dr. Evil prepares to activate the tractor beam, but Foxxy has stolen the key and frees Austin. Austin prepares to shoot Dr. Evil, when Nigel appears and reveals Dr. Evil and Austin are brothers, separated when they were toddlers when an assassination attempt killed their mother, and Dr. Evil was found and raised by Belgians. Dr. Evil (revealed to be named Dougie), Austin, Nigel, and Mini-Me embrace; enraging Scott, who leaves to pursue his own vengeance.
Goldmember commandeers the tractor beam's controls, unzipping his pants to reveal his gold-covered genitals to be a spare key. Goldmember activates the tractor beam, but Austin and Dr. Evil work together to reverse its polarity, destroying the meteor and saving the world. The heroes arrest Goldmember, who turns to the camera to reveal the entire string of events was adapted into a film by Steven Spielberg, starring Tom Cruise as Austin, Kevin Spacey as Dr. Evil, Danny DeVito as Mini-Me, Gwyneth Paltrow as Dixie Normous and John Travolta as Goldmember.
Austin says that the movie lacks Mojo. Austin, Foxxy, Dr. Evil, Mini-Me and Nigel are in the audience of a Hollywood theater watching the film. Upon exiting the theater, they bump into Fat Bastard, now normal size thanks to the Subway diet. As Austin and Foxxy kiss, in Dr. Evil's Hollywood lair Scott - now bald and dressing and laughing in a manner similar to his father - declares he will get his revenge on Austin and begins dancing like the singer Michael Jackson. Mini-Me talks with Britney Spears, who wants to give him her phone number.