movieId: 2384
title: Babe: Pig in the City
year: 1998
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120595/
ratingValue: 
directors: George Miller
actors: Magda Szubanski, James Cromwell, Mary Stein, Mickey Rooney, Elizabeth Daily, Danny Mann, Glenne Headly, Steven Wright, James Cosmo, Nathan Kress

synopsis:
Months after the events of the first film, Babe (E. G. Daily) and his master, Arthur Hoggett (James Cromwell), are hailed upon return after Babe's success as a "sheep pig". One day, Babe inadvertently causes an accident while attempting to lend Farmer Hoggett a hand repairing the pump for the farm's well. Arthur sustains severe injuries and is unable to tend to the farm; Esme (Magda Szubanski) is tasked with tending the farm alone, which proves unsuccessful. Shortly afterward, bank representatives arrive to inform the Hoggetts they defaulted on their mortgage and will be evicted at the end of the month, unless they can pay it off. With the looming threat of foreclosure and losing the farm forever, Esme finds a flyer for a faraway fair hosting a sheepdog herding contest, which promises enough prize money to save the farm. After reassuring Arthur she'll take care of Babe on the trip, Esme and Babe leave the farm together. At the city of Metropolis' airport, an overzealous sniffer beagle named Snoop (Bill Capizzi), who shows Babe what it is like to be rewarded for a "good job", falsely signals that he and Esme are carrying illegal substances. Airport security officers interrogate Esme, causing her to miss their connecting flight. They have to wait a few days for the flight back. Failing to secure accommodation that allows animals in an unfamiliar city, Esme is approached by an airport janitor who refers them to a suitable hotel. But when Esme arrives at the hotel, she's conspicuously turned away by the landlady Miss Floom (Mary Stein).
Dejected, Esme begins to depart, only to be intercepted at the back entrance by the landlady, who secretly loves animals and mercifully provides refuge by skirting hospitality laws and the authorities, much to the chagrin of her nosy neighbors Hortense (Julie Godfrey). While Esme leaves Babe to make a long-distance call home, Babe chases a Panamanian white-faced Capuchin named Tug (Danny Mann) who steals Esme's suitcase. Following him into a hotel room, Babe meets a trio of chimpanzees-Bob (Steven Wright), Zootie (Glenne Headly) and Easy (Myles Jeffrey)-and Thelonius (James Cosmo), a civilized Bornean orangutan who is a servant for the landlady's elderly uncle, Fugly (Mickey Rooney), who decides to keep Babe and make him part of his clown act he performs with his apes at the children's ward of the local hospital. Babe initially refuses, but accepts when the apes insinuate he will be paid-funds he could use to save the farm. When Esme returns, Fugly leads her to think Babe escaped into the city. During her search for Babe, Esme is arrested after an incident involving police officers and other bystanders caused by a gang of hooligan bikers attempting to mug her. Meanwhile, at the hospital, Fugly performs his act, with Babe as the new addition to the show. However, the act goes awry when Babe accidentally causes Fugly to set the stage curtains ablaze, forcing an evacuation. The next morning, Fugly is taken to the hospital in a food coma, accompanied by his niece. The hotel's animal occupants, now left to fend for themselves, soon become hungry. Later that night, the chimps decide to steal food from a store, using Babe to distract a pair of guard dogs. When they chase Babe around the neighborhood, he falls into a canal, but swims to safety. Babe returns to save one of the dogs from drowning, who gratefully pledges to be Babe's bodyguard; Babe then invites all the stray cats and dogs to the hotel (the inhabitants cannot complain due to the presence of the ferocious guard dog). Babe and the guard dog share the pilfered jellybeans the chimps stole, with all the animals as Zootie later goes into labor and gives birth to twins. To comfort the still-hungry group of animal guests, Babe joins them together in singing "If I Had Words", which is overheard by Babe's duck friend, Ferdinand (Danny Mann), who left the farm in search of him. The celebration is interrupted when several animal control officers, alerted to the violation by the Flooms' spying neighbor, Hortense, break into the hotel and remove all the animals except for Babe, Tug, Ferdinand and a disabled Jack Russell terrier named Flealick (Adam Goldberg). The next day, Esme is released from custody after explaining her predicament to the judge (Kim Story). That night, Babe, Tug, Ferdinand, and Flealick infiltrate the animal control facility and rescue their imprisoned friends. Esme later returns to the hotel to find it in disarray and the landlady mourning her uncle and the animals' capture. They both soon confront Hortense about where the animals have been sent and then set out to find them. The duo track the animals to a charity dinner in the hospital's ballroom. After evading the staff, Esme, who is later aided by Thelonius, and the landlady successfully retrieve all the animals. The landlady then sells the hotel, which becomes a loud nightclub, and gives the proceeds to Esme to save the farm. The landlady and the animals come to stay at the farm, Esme happily resumes her duties aided by Thelonius, and Arthur recovers with only a minor limp. Arthur, after finally fixing the farm's water pump, proudly beams at Babe and says, "That'll do, Pig. That'll do."