movieId: 2555
title: Baby Geniuses
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118665/
ratingValue: 
directors: Bob Clark
actors: Kathleen Turner, Christopher Lloyd, Kim Cattrall, Peter MacNicol, Dom DeLuise, Ruby Dee, Kyle Howard, Kaye Ballard, Leo Fitzgerald, Myles Fitzgerald

synopsis:
Two scientists, Dr. Elena Kinder (Kathleen Turner) and Dr. Heep (Christopher Lloyd), use genius-baby studies to fund BabyCo's theme park "Joyworld". BabyCo is the largest manufacturer of products for the baby and this research would help them understand the needs of babies are lot better. Kinder is also the CEO of BabyCo.
According to Dr. Kinder's research on toddlers/babies, babies are born possessing vast, universal knowledge and speak a secret yet impossible-to-translate baby Pre-language called Babytalk. However, at age 2-3, the knowledge and language are lost as the babies "cross over" by learning how to speak human languages. All babies raised in Dr. Kinder's underground research facility were adopted from the orphanages Babyco supports. As they serve to filter out which babies should be raised under the Kinder Method and which babies shouldn't be raised under the Kinder Method. The selected babies are transformed into small geniuses through use of the Kinder Method, and then used in experiments to decipher this secret yet impossible-to-translate language used by the eight baby geniuses.
Kinder says that she is spending $200 million every year on the orphanages with the sole purpose of expanding her pool of geniuses. One mischievous toddler, Sylvester (Leo, Gerry and Myles Fitzgerald) the only one of her toddlers raised via use of the superior version of the Kinder Method, nicknamed "Sly", makes repeated attempts to escape Dr. Kinder's research facility. The facility itself is well protected to prevent the smart toddlers from escaping. The facility is 25 stories underground for added protection and secrecy. Sylvester is only afraid of Dr Heep and falls in line as soon as he is confronted by him. Dr Heep had figured out the a baby playing on a musical instrument seems to produce noise, but a computer analysis of the sounds reveals a complex symphony worthy of a Beethoven. Also he finds that children drawing using crayons resemble an ancient language called Cuneiform. Dr Heep concludes that babies use this language and can understand each other. Cracking this secret would be the key to proving the superiority of the Kinder method of child upbringing.
Sly's fellow geniuses believe that Kinder is trying to unleash a new world order where the babies would be the leaders, but Sly is not convinced and remains very skeptical of Kinder and her motives. He believes that Heep and Kinder are just wanting their own way to control the world through the babies. One night, Sylvester manages to get into a diaper truck and succeeds in getting out of the facility. The next morning, he is surprised to run into his long-lost normal twin brother, Whit, in a mall where Sly was hiding from Kinder's goons.
Sly and Whit were born to a specifically selected surrogate mother and while Sly was taken to the research facility, Kinder arranged for Whit to be adopted by Robin, her niece. For the integrity of the experiment it was imperative that no one discovers that Sly and Whit are twins. A comparative evaluation will be done at the age of 6 to conclusively establish the superiority of the Kinder method.
Sly is able to create complex shapes using Lego blocks even though he is only a baby. Meanwhile Whit is very naughty and plays pranks all the time. Although Sylvester and Whit share a telepathic bond, each has no idea of the other's existence. The guards from Dr. Kinder's research facility capture Whit, mistaking him for Sylvester, and take him back to Dr. Kinder's research facility. Sylvester is taken home by Whit's adopted mother, Robin (Kim Cattrall), who is Dr. Kinder's niece. Dan Bobbin is Robin's husband. Robin knows that Kinder has stolen all of Dan's research on babies and is now using it for her own personal profit. Dan and Robin run a Pre-school of their own, where Dan does his own research on babies. Dan was doing his own work on the secret baby language which Kinder did not know about.
Dan video tapes Sly talking and suddenly realizes that he can understand what the babies are saying. Dr. Kinder (when Heep compares voice prints of Sly from last week with ones from the current baby) and the seven other baby-geniuses are shocked that Whit and Sylvester switched places at the mall, but Dr. Kinder becomes excited and begins to see this as an opportunity to do a cross evaluation on the twins. However, when she comes to Dan Bobbin's (Peter MacNicol) place, she realizes that Dan can understand babies. She realizes that if Sly tells Dan the truth about her keeping the twins separate, she could go to jail. After the attempts to retrieve Sylvester fail (her goons simulate a power outage in the area and enter the house as power company men, but Sly is able to defeat them), Dr. Kinder decides to move the research facility to Liechtenstein, and they have no choice but to make Whit be the only normal baby to be raised in this research facility until they can find a possible way to get Sylvester back to her research facility. The babies at Bobbin's place hypnotize Lenny (Dom DeLuise), the bus driver, to drive to Dr. Kinder's research facility. Once at the research facility, Sylvester goes to the control room to set the robots from the theme park on the lab scientists. When the Bobbins return home, their natural daughter Carrie (Gabrielle and Megan Robbins) tells her father that the children are in Dr. Kinder's research facility. At the end of the fight, Dr. Kinder captures Whit and takes him to the helicopter pad on the roof. Robin and Dan (Peter MacNicol) chase them to the roof, where Dr. Kinder reveals that she and Robin are not related and that Robin was adopted at age 2. After Dr. Kinder is arrested by the police, Sylvester and Whit come together on the roof to cross over. Dan and Robin adopt Sylvester. Dan is still curious of the secrets of life; but, as the twins have crossed over, they no longer know those secrets. Carrie, their sister, doesn't reveal anything (just giving her father a Sly smile) because adults are never meant to know their secrets.