movieId: 3525
title: Bachelor Party
year: 1984
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0086927/
ratingValue: 
directors: Neal Israel
actors: Tom Hanks, Tawny Kitaen, Adrian Zmed, George Grizzard, Barbara Stuart, Robert Prescott, William Tepper, Wendie Jo Sperber, Barry Diamond, Gary Grossman

synopsis:
Party animal Rick Gassko (Tom Hanks), who makes his living as a Catholic-school bus driver, decides to settle down and marry his girlfriend Debbie Thompson (Tawny Kitaen). After learning the news of the engagement, Rick's shocked friends, led by Jay (Adrian Zmed) (who is obsessed with breasts and is a professional photographer by profession), Gary (Gary Grossman) (ticketing agent), Rudy (Barry Diamond) (car mechanic), Ryko (Michael Dudikoff) (waiter) & brother Dr. Stanley "Stan" Gassko (William Tepper) (Proctologist) decide to throw him an epic bachelor party.
Stan is very unhappy with his marriage to Dr. Tina Gassko (Wendie Jo Sperber) (who is a tight ass). Stan is looking forward to bachelor party to see some naked women and blow off some steam. The bride's wealthy, conservative parents (Ed Thompson (George Grizzard) & Mrs. Thompson (Barbara Stuart)) are unhappy with her decision (since Rick is poor with no career prospects), and her father enlists the help of Debbie's ex-boyfriend Cole Whittier (Robert Prescott) to sabotage her relationship with Rick and win her back. Cole offers money to Rick to leave Debbie, but he refuses. While Debbie (who is a salesgirl in a clothing store) worries (after being told that men are pigs by her cousin Ilene (Deborah Harmon)) and goes off to a bridal shower thrown by her friends Bobbi (Tracy Smith), Rick heads to the bachelor party, which takes place in a lavish, spacious hotel suite, and promises to Debbie to remain faithful. Rick promises no hookers to Debbie. Both parties start off on the wrong foot because of Cole's meddling. Cole follows Gary, who hires hookers and after Gary leaves, he bribes the pimp to send the hookers to bridal shower party instead. The hookers enter the house and proceed to have sex in front of all the ladies. The ladies learn that the hookers were supposed to go to a bachelor party and Ilene gets the girls to go to a girls club. Michael is Rick's friend, who bartenders at the girls club and calls Rick when Debbie walks in. Tina is part of DEbbie's group and has a wild time at the club with the male strippers.
Ilene had cut off the "dirty" parts from a porno movie she found in Jay's car and now the guys don't have anything to get started with. Cole reaches the stag party and offers Rick his Porsche to get off Debbie. Rudy steals the car and takes it away. Cole later finds his car with a detailing job that makes it look like a pimp car.
The guys go to the girls club and play a prank, by disguising a huge penis inside a sandwich, which Debbie's mom ends up yanking, as a source of amusement for the guys. Only, Ilene sees them having their fun at the girls's expense. As the bachelor party starts to heat up (Gary goes to another pimp and gets many hookers for a cut rate price for 45 mins (as the girls have other customers in the same hotel)). when the 45 mins are up, the pimp sends his bouncer Milt to the hotel to collect his hookers.
Debbie and the girls decide to get even with Rick and his friends by dressing as hookers and deciding to catch Rick in action. But when they get to the hotel lobby, they run into Milt, who assumes that Debbie and the girls are the hookers and delivers them to a Japanese businessmen party at the same hotel. The girls manage to escape by locking all the Japanese inside the bedroom. The bachelor party becomes a wild, drunken orgy and the hotel room is trashed, which infuriates the hotel's frustrated manager (Kenneth Kimmins). Adding to the confusion is Rick's friend Brad (Bradford Bancroft), who has become despondent over the breakup of his marriage and botches several suicide attempts. When Brad tries to slit his wrists with an electric razor, Rick says, "Well.....at least your wrists will be smooth and kissable."
Gary falls in love with a hooker, only to realize that she is a transvestite with a penis. Jay gets Rick's ex-flame Tracey (Monique Gabrielle) to the party, who gets naked for RIck, but Rick refuses to have sex with her. Cole attacks Rick with a mechanized bow and arrow (from a hotel room across the street) and Rick spots him.
Rick and his friends capture Cole, strip him naked and hang him with bed-sheets outside his hotel room window. By now, Ricks' party had grown as many strangers have hopped in. Stan sneaks in a donkey into the party. The donkey snorts drugs and collapses. Ed arrives at the party (he was delivering a keynote speech at a conference in the same hotel) and threatens to reveal everything to DEbbie. Jay waylays Ed with all the hookers.
Debbie eventually reaches Rick's party where she is recognized despite her hooker disguise. To have fun, Rick gets her in the sack and jumps her bones and DEbbie reveals herself, concluding that she cant trust Rick. Rick convinces Debbie of his love and faithfulness (by asking the entire room if he slept if any of them that night) just as the party is raided by the police (Ed is only one left behind as everyone else escapes). In the ensuing melee, Rick and Debbie become separated and Cole kidnaps Debbie, so Rick and his friends chase after them. The chase culminates in a showdown between Rick and Cole in a 36-screen movie theater, with a fist fight taking place in synchronization with a similar fight being shown in a 3D film projected behind them; the audience believes that the real fight is an extraordinary 3D effect. Rick wins the fight and is reunited with Debbie. After the wedding, Rick and Debbie are driven to the airport for their honeymoon in Rick's school bus, which is driven by a laughing Brad.