movieId: 1270
title: Back to the Future
year: 1985
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0088763/
ratingValue: 
directors: Robert Zemeckis
actors: Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd, Lea Thompson, Crispin Glover, Tom Wilson, Claudia Wells, Marc McClure, Wendie Jo Sperber, George DiCenzo, Frances Lee McCain

synopsis:
In 1985, teenager Marty McFly lives in Hill Valley, California. Marty has a meek father, George, who is bullied by his supervisor, Biff Tannen. George (Crispin Glover) is cowardly and submissive & puts up with all kinds of nonsense from his supervisor Biff (Thomas F. Wilson) who totally rides rod-shod over George. Biff admonishes George in front of his family, for loaning him a car with a blind spot. Biff gets George to do all his office work on top of George's own job. George tells Marty that he is not very good at confrontations.
Marty goes around town in his beloved skateboard. A news channel announces that there is a rumor that Plutonium was stolen from a Pacific Nuclear Research facility about 2 weeks ago. A Libyan terrorist group had taken responsibility for the alleged theft. Marty's mother Lorraine (Lea Thompson) behaves like a nun & doesn't allow Marty any kind of freedom with Jennifer. Lorraine that a girl spending time with a boy before marriage is just wrong, and when she was young, she never indulged in this kind of behavior. Marty has brother Dave (Marc McClure) & sister Linda (Wendie Jo Sperber). Lorraine's brother Joey was in jail & is just being released. Lorraine also reveals how she met George. George was in a tree & was hit by Lorraine's dad's car who brought him home when he fell. Lorraine asked George to prom out of sympathy & when George kissed him at the dance, she decided to marry him. Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox). Marty D is a friend of scientist, Emmett "Doc" Brown (Christopher Llyod). Doc has automated his entire home all sorts of gadgets, some which work perfectly and others that do not. Marty visits Doc's apartment to practice his guitar on Doc's amplifier, and it is shown that a case of Plutonium is kept hidden under Doc's work-table.
Doc calls his own home and asks Marty to meet him that night at the Twin Pines Mall at 1:15 a.m. Marty asks him where he's been all week. Marty's girlfriend Jennifer (Claudia Wells) is his classmate at high school where Marty is always in trouble for being friends with Doc. The principal of the school considers Marty to be a slacker and says that his father was a slacker too. After Marty's band fails a music audition for the upcoming dance night, he confides in Jennifer Parker, that he fears becoming like his parents despite his ambitions. The town clock tower was stuck by lightening 30 years ago & has been shut ever since. The current mayor is sponsoring an initiative to repair the clock tower and Marty takes a pamphlet. At 1 am Marty heads to twin pines mall to meet Doc who is with his modified Delorean car. Doc demonstrates that his car is a time machine, works on Plutonium & activates at 88 Mph. Doc reveals that he got the Plutonium from Libyan terrorists who wanted a bomb, but Doc delivered a fake.
Doc sets the dials on his time machine to Nov 5th, 1955 as he remembers that this was the day on which he discovered time travel. After the demonstration, Libyans attack & kill Doc as they were angry at not being delivered the working nuclear weapon, as promised by Doc. Marty hides in the car & accelerates to 88 Mph & travels back in time to 1955 (the date and year as was set on the time traveling Delorean). Marty realizes he has landed in the past & tries to find Doc as the Plutonium in the car is exhausted and without it, he cannot return to 1985. He finds young George being bullied by a young Biff. George falls into the path of an oncoming car while spying on the teenage Lorraine changing clothes, and Marty is knocked unconscious while saving him. The car owner takes Marty home. Marty wakes to young Lorraine looking seductively at Marty. Marty finds Doc & shows him the car to prove that he is from future. Doc promises Marty to get him back to 1985. The car required 1.21 GW of power to activate, & in absence of plutonium only a lightning bolt will work. Marty shows Doc a flyer from the future that documents an upcoming lightning strike at the town's courthouse. As Marty's siblings begin to fade from a photo he carries with him, Doc realizes Marty's actions are altering the future and jeopardizing his existence; Lorraine was supposed to tend to George instead of Marty after the car accident. Early attempts to get his parents acquainted fail, and Lorraine's infatuation with Marty deepens. Marty has to get George & Lorraine together, but Lorraine loves Marty. Marty foiling Biff's plans to humiliate George only endear Marty even more to Lorraine. Lorraine asks Marty to dance & Marty tells George that he will try to take advantage of Lorraine & George can step in & be a hero. At the night of the dance & the night of the lightning bolt, Marty slips a note into Doc's coat saying that he was killed by Libyans in 1985. Marty is with Lorraine when plan goes awry as Biff's gang locks Marty in the trunk of the performing band's car. Biff takes Lorraine into his car & starts molesting her. George arrives expecting to find Marty but is assaulted by Biff. After Biff hurts Lorraine, an enraged George knocks him unconscious and escorts the grateful Lorraine to the dance. The band frees Marty from their car, but the lead guitarist injures his hand in the process, so Marty takes his place, performing while George and Lorraine share their first kiss. With his future no longer in jeopardy, Marty hurries to the courthouse to meet Doc. Doc discovers a letter from Marty warning him about his future and rips it, worried about the consequences. To save Doc, Marty re-calibrates the DeLorean to return ten minutes before he had left the future. The lightning strikes, sending Marty back to 1985, but the DeLorean breaks down, forcing Marty to run back to the mall. He arrives as Doc is being shot. While Marty grieves at his side, Doc sits up, revealing he had pieced Marty's note back together and is wearing a bulletproof vest. He takes Marty home and departs to 2015 in the DeLorean. Marty wakes the next morning to discover his father is now a confident and successful science fiction author, his mother is fit and happy, his siblings are successful, and Biff is a servile valet in George's employ. As Marty reunites with Jennifer, Doc suddenly reappears in the DeLorean, insisting they return with him to the future to save their children from terrible fates