movieId: 5414
title: Bad Company
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0280486/
ratingValue: 
directors: Joel Schumacher
actors: Anthony Hopkins, Chris Rock, Matthew Marsh, Gabriel Macht, Kerry Washington, Adoni Maropis, Garcelle Beauvais, Peter Stormare, Dragan Micanovic, John Slattery

synopsis:
When a mission to retrieve a stolen suitcase bomb goes bad, CIA agent Kevin Pope (Chris Rock) is killed. Pope was working undercover as an antiquities dealer under the name Michael Turner. Pope was meeting with arms dealer Adrik Vas, who is the seller of the suitcase bomb. Agent Oakes joins Pope as the buyer, with a briefcase full of $1 million, as down payment against a full payment of $20 million. Adrik promises to deliver the device in 10 days and gives a phone to Pope to keep with him at all times as that is how Adrik would contact him.
After Oakes leaves in a taxi, Pope is followed by a rival gang who is also after the device. Oakes is notified of the attack on Pope, but before he could respond, Pope is shot down. Pope dies while saving Oakes' life. Oakes had pulled Pope into the taxi, which is where he died, and hence the rival organization did not know if Pope was really dead. The CIA is more concerned about the nuclear bomb that fits into a suitcase and make it their top priority to retrieve the device. Pope spent 2 years getting close to Adrik and to position Oakes as the buyer. Adrik would not talk to anyone except Pope.
CIA Agents include Seale (Gabriel Macht), Deputy Director Roland Yates (John Slattery), Swanson (Brooke Smith), Carew (Daniel Sunjata), Parish (DeVone Lawson Jr.), McCain (Wills Robbins), Dempsey (Dan Ziskie), Ferren (John Aylward), Fink (John Fink) and Wells (Shea Whigham).
The CIA believes that by eliminating Pope, the rival organization has eliminated the competition and forced Adrik to deal with them. The CIA, who is desperate to complete the mission discovers that Agent Pope had a twin brother, Jake Hayes (Chris Rock), from whom he was separated at birth. Their mother died giving birth and Hayes suffered from a severe lung infection that prompted the doctors to separate them because they felt that Hayes was unlikely to live for very long. Hayes hustles chess games for $20 per game, scalps big game tickets and works at small clubs in Jersey City to make ends meet.
Meanwhile Hayes's girlfriend, Julie (Washington) grows tired of waiting for him to grow up and decides to move to Seattle, Washington. Julie is a nurse's aide. Julie tells Hayes that in 3 years they have made no progress on their financial stability, and they still cannot afford to get married. Oakes meets Hayes and informs him about Pope but says that Pope died in a helicopter accident. Oakes asks Hayes to stand in for Pope for a period of 9 days, for which he will be adequately compensated. Hayes demands $50,000 with $10,000 paid upfront and the remainder after the job is done. After the CIA successfully persuades Hayes into participating and begins to train Hayes for a mission that is to take place in Prague (Czech Republic), they are initially dismayed by his lack of refinement. Oakes believes that it will be impossible to adequately train Hayes in 8 days that are left for the meeting with Adrik.
Hayes is subjected to a crash course in CIA protocol and to learn Pope's mannerisms from his old videos. Agent Oakes (Anthony Hopkins) confronts Hayes telling him he doesn't trust him and tells him to learn all the material on Pope in one day else he will kill Hayes. When Hayes begins paying attention, the CIA sets him up in his brother's old apartment in Manhattan to test him and try to bait the men who killed his brother as they still had no clue if Pope was dead or alive. Hayes is attacked but escapes unharmed by climbing out of the bedroom window. Pope's apartment was under CIA observation, but the assassin entered the apartment through the ventilation shaft. Looking for a way out, Hayes goes to his foster mother only to be found by Oakes who persuades him to finish the mission. After arriving in Prague, Hayes meets with the men selling the suitcase bomb posing as his dead brother. The seller, Adrik Vas (Peter Stormare), is an ex-Russian Army Colonel with ties to the Russian Mafia. When they return to their hotel, Hayes is greeted by his brother's ex-girlfriend Nicole (Garcelle Beauvais). Believing that Hayes is his brother the two have dinner and return to the hotel only to be ambushed by rival buyers. Nicole figures out Hayes isn't his brother and returns to her assignment covering the Balkans for CNN. Moving forward with the plans, Hayes and Oakes meet up with Adjanic (Matthew Marsh) and are able to steal the arming codes. Just as they close the deal, Vas' men double cross him with the rival buyer. When the rival dealers, who are part of a Greek terrorist organization, learn they can't detonate the bomb because of the missing codes, they kidnap Julie. Hayes gives himself up trying to save his girlfriend and the terrorists get the codes back and arm the bomb. Now the race begins to find Hayes and the bomb. After interrogating one of the captured terrorists, they track the bomb to Grand Central Station. With the clock ticking, they locate the bomb and the terrorist leader Dragan Adjanic, who has started the countdown.
Oakes rescues Hayes by killing two terrorists. As Hayes starts to enter the codes to disarm the bomb, Adjanic holds Julie hostage. In order to distract Adjanic, Hayes pretends to shoot Oakes and they kill Adrik by shooting him repeatedly. Hayes is able to disarm the bomb just prior to detonation. Hayes visits the memorial for deceased secret agents to visit his brother's grave. Later on, Oakes comes up to Hayes at Hayes's wedding and warns him that a dangerous criminal has escaped from prison and is seeking revenge upon Kevin Pope, but since Kevin is dead and Hayes was impersonating him, the criminal thinks Hayes is Kevin. Hayes begins to panic and demand that Oakes has to protect him, but Oakes starts laughing as he reveals that it was just a joke and he really just came for the wedding.