movieId: 6548
title: Bad Boys II
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0172156/
ratingValue: 
directors: Michael Bay
actors: Martin Lawrence, Will Smith, Jordi Mollà, Gabrielle Union, Peter Stormare, Theresa Randle, Joe Pantoliano, Michael Shannon, Jon Seda, Yul Vazquez

synopsis:
Eight years after the events of the first film, Miami police detectives Marcus Barnett (Martin Lawrence) and Mike Lowrey (Will Smith) are investigating the flow of highly-potent ecstasy into the city. The drugs are shipped from Cuba on freight ships and dropped in the ocean near Miami in coffins. The coffins are picked up by speedboats. The whole operation is supervised by Johnny Tapia, who is bringing $150 million worth of ecstasy into the US.
The smugglers are able to escape the Coast Guard and bring the drugs to shore. The Miami PD surveillance of boats coming in from Cuba leads them to a Ku Klux Klan meeting and a drug drop in a swamp. The subsequent raid on the Klan members proves to be a disaster. Mike and Marcus were disguised as Klan members themselves, and they reveal themselves when the drugs have been dropped.
Malfunctioning radios leads to a delayed arrival of the Miami Police's Tactical Narcotics Team (TNT), causing a firefight where Mike accidentally shoots Marcus in the buttocks, while the Klan members are revealed to be mere small-time buyers and not the distributors of the ecstasy. The incident leaves Marcus to further question if he still wants to partner with Mike, while Mike frets that Marcus may discover his relationship with Marcus' sister, Syd (Gabrielle Union). Marcus is waiting for the right time to tell Mike he is transferring out of the TNT Unit. Unknown to Mike and Marcus, Syd is an undercover operative with the DEA, as a money laundering agent for Russian gangsters. The Russian gangsters are in fact the distributors of the ecstasy on behalf of neurotic Cuban drug lord Johnny Tapia (Jordi Mollà). During her first assignment in Miami, a violent Haitian Zoe Pound gang attempts to hijack the money transport between the Russians and Tapia, putting Syd in danger. Mike and Marcus, working on a tip from an informant, had been following the Haitians. Mike and Marcus inadvertently stumble into the action, and an intense fire fight and car chase ensues between the gang members and the Miami Police/DEA, devastating the local area and enraging Police Captain Conrad Howard (Joe Pantoliano). Mike and Marcus are reprimanded by Captain Howard, who is further miffed to find out the DEA is running an investigation in the city without consulting him first. Marcus and Mike learn of Syd's actual work, which makes Marcus unhappy, while Capt. Howard demands they find the supplier of ecstasy. Marcus and Mike go to confront the Haitian gang leader, which results in a firefight and the leader revealing that his information about the transport came from his friend's camcorder. After viewing the footage, Marcus and Mike find out that a local business, the Spanish Palms Mortuary, is possibly being used as a front by Tapia. Disguised as pest terminators, the detectives penetrate Tapia's mansion and discover that Tapia has eliminated his Russian distributors. Meanwhile, Tapia begins a mixed business-personal relationship with Syd, wherein he intends for her to launder all the money for his operation. Syd is still undercover with the DEA and has refocused the investigation towards Tapia.
The detectives also recover evidence linking Tapia to one of the boats involved in the Klan raid. After pressuring one of the arrested Klansman into making Tapia's boat, the detectives find themselves involved in another firefight, this time while pursuing a morgue van from the docks carrying emptied cadavers. Mike and Marcus decide to infiltrate Tapia's mortuary, where they learn that the drug lord is using dead bodies to smuggle his drugs and money. The mission is nearly sabotaged when the pair are almost discovered, resulting in Marcus accidentally ingesting some of the ecstasy and Mike ordering the disguised officers outside the building to crash an ambulance into it, creating an diversion. The evidence is sufficient for Captain Howard to authorize a raid on both Tapia's residence and the mortuary, in collaboration with the DEA and the U.S. Coast Guard.
After Mike and an intoxicated Marcus obtain a search warrant from Capt. Howard, the mortuary and Tapia's mansion are raided, with the drugs and money being intercepted by the Coast Guard. However, the mansion raid is botched when a vengeful Russian gangster, Alexei (Peter Stormare), violently storms the mansion on his own. Alexei is killed by the police, while Syd is discovered by Tapia and kidnapped to Cuba.
Nearly all of Tapia's drug supply and money are confiscated in the raid, though Tapia flees to Cuba with Syd as a hostage, having found out about her being a DEA agent during the raid on Tapia's home before he could be apprehended.
With Syd held prisoner in Tapia's compound and guarded by the Cuban military, the drug lord demands the return of his money in two days in exchange for Syd's life. Tapia uses Syd as a bargaining chip, demanding the return of his money in 48 hours. Mike and Marcus form a black-ops team with agents from the DEA, TNT, and Captain Howard's contacts from the CIA to rescue Syd. The team is inserted by the Coast Guard a few miles off the coast of Cuba, where they rendezvous with fellow officer Vargas's brother, Tito, who is head of the local Alpha 66 underground resistance there. He assists the teams with weapons, a tunnel network, and an accurate mapping of Tapia's new mansion. The team raids Tapia's mansion, rescues Syd, and leaves a large explosive device that demolishes the mansion upon the team's ex-filtration. Marcus, Mike, Syd, and Tito steal a yellow Hummer H2 as they escape from Cuban military forces controlled by Tapia. Tapia survives and pursues the group, ultimately ending up outside of Guantanamo Bay. Not recognized as U.S. citizens, the Navy personnel on the base shoot at both Mike and Marcus as well as Tapia's vehicles, prompting them to stop just as they enter a live minefield. Marcus kills Tapia while the latter holds Mike at gunpoint. Tapia's body falls backward onto a mine, which obliterates his corpse. Mike, Marcus, and Syd celebrate at a barbecue in Marcus' backyard with his family; Marcus has decided to remain partners with Mike.