movieId: 737
title: Barb Wire
year: 1996
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0115624/
ratingValue: 
directors: David Hogan
actors: Amir AboulEla, Adriana Alexander, David Andriole, Vanessa Lee Asher, Ron Balicki, Jennifer Banko, Candace Kita, Xander Berkeley, Tony Bill, Alex Bookston

synopsis:
In 2017, during the Second American Civil War, Barb Wire (Pamela Anderson) owns the Hammerhead, a nightclub in Steel Harbor, the last free city in the United States ravaged by the war. She also earns cash as a mercenary and a bounty hunter. Chief of Police Alexander Willis (Xander Berkeley) raids her nightclub. His target is fugitive Dr. Corrina Devonshire (Victoria Rowell), a former government scientist with information of a new bioweapon called Red Ribbon being developed by her former superiors in the Congressional Directorate. The Congressional Council assigned Colonel Victor Pryzer (Steve Railsback) with finding Devonshire so they can end the Second Civil War by releasing the virus on the United Front territories. Dr. Devonshire hopes to escape to Canada to make this information public. Devonshire suddenly appears at the Hammerhead. She is attended by Alex Hood (Temuera Morrison), a freedom fighter Barb had loved at the outbreak of the war. The two were separated during the conflict. Alex attempts to help Cora get to Canada. They attempt to find a contraband pair of contact lenses that would allow Cora to evade the retinal scan identification at the Steel Harbor airport. The lenses pass through the hands of several lowlifes before also ending up at Barb's nightclub. Rather than give the lenses to Axel and Cora, Barb makes a deal with Big Fatso, the leader of a junkyard gang: Fatso wants the lenses, which are worth a fortune on the black market, and Barb wants a million dollars and an armed escort to the airport, where she plans to get on the plane to Canada. But Fatso double-crosses Barb; when Barb, Alex and Cora arrive at the junkyard to make the swap, Colonel Pryzer and his storm troopers are also there, along with Chief of Police Willis. Willis makes a show of arresting Barb and Cora, but instead of putting handcuffs on Barb, he slips her a hand grenade. Barb uses the grenade to kill Fatso and cause enough confusion to allow Barb, Axel, Cora and Willis to pile into Barb's armored van and lead the Congressionals on a car chase, culminating into a hand-to-hand between Barb and Pryzer on a forklift suspended by crane above the harbor. Colonel Pryzer falls to his death while Barb escapes. The party succeeds to the airport, where Barb reveals she still has the contact lenses. She gives them to Cora, and Axel and Cora get on the plane to Canada while Willis and Barb remain on the rainswept tarmacadam.