movieId: 3593
title: Battlefield Earth
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0185183/
ratingValue: 
directors: Roger Christian
actors: John Travolta, Barry Pepper, Forest Whitaker, Kim Coates, Sabine Karsenti, Michael Byrne, Christian Tessier, Sylvain Landry, Richard Tyson, Christopher Freeman

synopsis:
Jonnie Goodboy Tyler and a group of cave-dwellers in the Rocky Mountains in the year 3000 AD are terrified of the "demons" that control the planet. After questioning their accounts, Jonnie rides into the lowlands and is shown a barren and overgrown city by hunters Carlo and Rock. As he explores it, he is taken as a slave to a base in the ruins of Denver after being captured by the demons and a vicious alien species known as Psychlos. The Psychlos are given a breathable atmosphere by the massive dome that covers the base. Terl, the high-born Earth security chief, is interested in Jonnie because of her resourcefulness, which also wins her the respect of the other human slaves. A visiting supervisor informs Terl that he will be punished for offending a politician by having his temporary assignment on Earth extended indefinitely. He and his helper Ker come up with a plan in a desperate attempt to get away. They are aware of a newly discovered gold deposit in a region with high radiation levels. Radiation causes their air mixture to explode, but the Psychlos, who have been reporting losses from their mining operations, value gold. Together with Ker, Terl will teach people how to extract the gold, and he will use some of it to buy his way off the planet. Jonnie is put into a learning machine by Terl, which quickly teaches him the Psychlo language and technology. Jonnie conceals his knowledge from Terl and Ker while imparting it to other slaves. Terl takes Jonnie to the Denver Library after he makes a failed escape attempt in an attempt to convince him that the Psychlos are superior to human knowledge. After reading the Declaration of Independence, Jonnie is motivated to pursue both escape and conquest. In the process of looking for him, Jonnie's fiancee Chrissy is apprehended and given an explosive collar. In addition to using fellow slave Sammy as an example, Terl threatens to kill Jonnie if he disobeys. Terl uses blackmail to get the planet administrator to authorize the gold mining operation, thinking that the slaves have been subdued. Jonnie is sent to the mining site with a team after completing additional training to become an aircraft pilot. While the other half collect abandoned human weapons and steal gold from Fort Knox to pass off as mining production, he leaves half of them to pretend to work. At Jonnie's insistence, Ker attempts to use blackmail to get a larger portion of the gold from Terl, but Terl sees through the attempt and shoots Ker's hand off. Using Harrier jets to attack the Psychlo air defenses and explosives to break through the dome, the humans begin their uprising and attack the base. Terl summons an extermination force from the Psychlo home world and orders the execution of all humans. Jonnie battles Terl as the tolerate activates, sneaking him into setting off Chrissy's collar by reattaching it to his arm. Mickey, Sammy's brother, carries a nuclear weapon and takes the tolerate to the home world. The entire planet explodes as a result of the weapon's fallout burning the atmosphere. When the remaining Psychlos discover that Terl's plan resulted in their defeat, Jonnie boasts to him at Fort Knox that they will do whatever it takes to win him back. In addition to gloating with the humans, Ker consents to teach them Psychlo technology.