movieId: 1665
title: Bean
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118689/
ratingValue: 
directors: Mel Smith
actors: Rowan Atkinson, Peter MacNicol, John Mills, Pamela Reed, Harris Yulin, Burt Reynolds, Larry Drake, Danny Goldring, Johnny Galecki, Chris Ellis

synopsis:
Mr. Bean is an eccentric caretaker working for the British national gallery in London, England, Mr. Bean is going to get fired by the museum's board of directors because he doesn't do his job and all he does is sleep. But the Chairman of the board is fond of Bean & refuses to fire him, so the board instead decides to send Mr. Bean to Los Angeles, where David Langley, curator of a museum in downtown L.A. has requested that the board of director's of the British national gallery sends a art scholar to talk about their latest purchase, the famous painting "Whristler's Mother" (worth $50 MM) which military officer General Newton has donated to the museum, at a opening conference. But Mr. Bean's arrival in Los Angeles causes mayhem as his gun in a pocket trick triggers a terrorist alert at LAX. David invites Mr. Bean to stay with his family and begins causing problems for David's marriage. His wife Alison is sure Bean is slow & when Bean destroys a frame that her mother gifted, she takes the kids & leaves home. At the museum, the director warns David that the unveiling is the most important event in the gallery's history & that Bean is David's choice. But David sticks by Bean. David takes Bean to an amusement park where he gets arrested for tampering with a ride controls that turns a ride dangerous. The director comes to David's home with his wife, for dinner & Bean manages to microwave blow up a turkey. Then David finds that Bean is not a Dr & knows nothing about art, but its too late to do anything about it, When the painting is unveiled, Bean is left alone with it for inspiration for his speech. He gets an ink stain on it & then proceeds to wipe it with spandex. It erases the face of Whistler's mother. David finds out & is distraught. He hides the painting behind the security door, as per plan, only to be unveiled in the public ceremony in 1 days time. David gets drunk & tells Bean that he cared about his career which is now down the drain. He reaches home & finds Alison waiting for him. She came back because she missed him, but now decides to leave David, seeing him drunk. Bean feels bad & that night breaks into the gallery & replaces the original with a poster which he embosses with egg white & nail polish remover to give it an authentic look. Everything goes splendid at the unveiling & Bean gives a simple speech which is very well received. But then David receives news that his daughter was in a motorcycle accident. He rushes to the hospital. Bean is mistook as a doctor and rushed to an operating room where he saves the life of a shot cop & even manages to bring David's girl out of coma. Alison grants him a favor & he asks to stay another week with the family & ends up being very good friends.
David thanks Bean for everything he has done. Bean goes back to London & the original defaced painting is now pasted on his bedroom wall!!