movieId: 970
title: Beat the Devil
year: 1953
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0046414/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Huston
actors: Humphrey Bogart, Jennifer Jones, Gina Lollobrigida, Robert Morley, Peter Lorre, Edward Underdown, Ivor Barnard, Marco Tulli, Bernard Lee, Mario Perrone

synopsis:
Four men Petersen (Robert Morley), O'Hara (Peter Lorre), Ravello (Marco Tulli) and Major Ross (Ivor Bernard) shuffle off to prison. Their great cape has failed. Six months earlier... The four men were waiting in a small Mediterranean seaport for passage to Africa to pull off a land swindle and acquire uranium deposits. American businessman Billy Dannreuther (Humphrey Bogart) was arranged the deal. He needed money. He suspected that Petersen had Major Ross, who was Nazi fugitive, assassinate Paul Vanmeer, a colonial officer who was aware of the swindle and he worried that Petersen would double-cross him and kill him. While waiting for the Nyanga to sail, Billy and his Italian wife Marina (Gina Lollobrigida) became acquainted with British passengers Gwnedolyn and Harry Chelm (Jennifer Jones and Edward Underdown), who were going to Africa to live on a coffee plantation. Anglophile Maria loved Billy but fantasized about running away with Harry, who falsely appeared to be a man of wealth and position. Meanhile, Gwendolyn was excited by Billy, and the two carried on a mild flirtation. O'Hara overheard Gwendolyn say that harry was wealthy and going to Africa to invest in land the contained uranium. Billy realized Gwendolyn was a habitual liar, but O'Hara believed what he heard the reported back to Petersen. Thinking Billy would double cross him with Haryr, Petersen insisted he and Billy fly by airplane immediately to Africa. However, on the way to the airport, there was a car crash. Everyone thought Billy and Petersen were killed. Gwendolyn told Harry that she had loved Billy. While O'Hara tries to convince the weeping Maria the she should take Billy's place in the venture, Ravello revealed the swindle scheme to Harry, hoping he'd put up the money. But then Billy and Petersen returned. The Nyanga sailed. Petersen stole Harry's dispatch case to see if Billy had told the truth when he said Harry had no wealth. He unhappily discovered Billy was correct. Harry became furious at the thievery and swore to tell the authorities about the land swindle. Maria unsuccessfully tried to seduce him to get him to reconsider. Then Major Ross tries to kill him, but Billy prevented it. Gwendolyn had Harry locked up for his own good, but he slipped overboard. The Nyanga broke down, leading Billy, Maria, Gwendolyn Petersen, O'Hara, Ravello and Ross to row a small boat to the African shore. They were all arrested by an Arab dictator who demanded to know why they were in his country illegally. Before the dictator could torture Petersen and find out about the swindle. Billy got the Arab to release them. Petersen had given the Arab leader money, and Billy promised to introduce him to his friend Rita Hayworth. Back in the small Mediterranean town, a colonial inspector (Bernard Lee0 asked them questions about Paul Vanmeer, Just when Petersen though he had convinced the inspector of his innocence, Gwendolyn revealed the truth. Petersen, O'Hara, Ravello and Major Ross go to prison. Billy and Maria, still without any money, are happily back together. A telegram from Harry cheers them grieving Gwendolyn, He has bought the land with the uranium deposits.