movieId: 7708
title: Bedazzled
year: 1967
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0061391/
ratingValue: 
directors: Stanley Donen
actors: Peter Cook, Dudley Moore, Eleanor Bron, Raquel Welch, Alba, Robert Russell, Barry Humphries, Parnell McGarry, Danièle Noël, Howard Goorney

synopsis:
The diminutive Stanley Moon (Dudley Moore) is a short-order cook in London's Wimpy's cafe. He loves waitress Margaret Spencer (Eleanor Bron), but is too shy to tell her so. Disconsolate because his prayers to help with his romance has gone unanswered, Stanley sends Margaret a suicide note and attempts to hang himself. He is interrupted by George Spiggott (Peter Cook) a dapper man who proves to the flabbergasted Stanley that he is actually the Devil. Stanley accompanies George to his scandalous Rendezvoid Club in Soho, where he meets the Seven Deadly Sins and watches George perform mischief. George admits that in these non-heroic times he has lost his spark. Stanley agrees to sell George his soul if he will help him win Margaret. George will grant Stanley seven wishes. For his first wish, Stanley is turned to an articulate intellectual. He invites Margaret to his pad, where they discuss art and music and how much they both like to feel things. Stanley takes Margaret's hint and puts his arms around her. She runs out screaming for help. For his next wish, Stanley becomes a wealthy tycoon who lavishes priceless presents upon his wife Margaret. Only it all falls apart when she is more excited by the physically advances of a young stud. When Stanley is awakened by Lilian Lust (Raquel Welch), who curls up in his bed, he asks George for his third wish to make him irresistible to women. Stanley quickly becomes a pop singer whom Margaret and other screaming women idolize. However, when Dremble Wedge (who looks like George) and Vegeation start singing, Stanley is soon forgotten by Margaret and all the female fans. For his fourth wish, Stanley wants to be a fly on the wall in order to hear all Margaret is saying about him. She speaks fondly of him to the police inspector Clarke (Michael Bates) who is investigating Stanley's disappearance. When the inspector sprays bug pesticide at him and he falls to the floor, George, also a fly, rescue Stanley. Stanley's fifth wish is that Margaret love him, be at home in the kitchen, and the mother of two children. Unfortunately, this wish also carries great misfortune when it turns out that Margaret is married to Stanley's best friend... who happens to be George. Because her husband is such a wonderful man, Stanley and Margaret fine it impossible to cheat on him. She calls off their affair. Finally, Stanley's sixth wish is that both he and Margaret become warm, loving and outgoing. However, they are both transformed into nuns of the Order of the Leaping Berelians. George tells Stanley that he will return his soul in hopes that this gesture will earn George entry into heaven. However, God refuses George because he broke his contract with Stanley for selfish reasons. George asks Stanley to temporarily sign a new contract then let him have his soul back for better reasons. Realizing that Geroge never fully delivered on his promises, Stanley refuses. He decides to approach Margaret without making his seventh wish or any of the devil's help. George will stick around to tempt him. George tells God that he'll make the world so noisy and disgusting that "even you'll be ashamed of yourself. God just laughs and laughs.