movieId: 2997
title: Being John Malkovich
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120601/
ratingValue: 
directors: Spike Jonze
actors: John Cusack, Cameron Diaz, Ned Bellamy, Eric Weinstein, Madison Lanc, Octavia Spencer, Mary Kay Place, Orson Bean, Catherine Keener, K.K. Dodds

synopsis:
Craig Schwartz (John Cusack) is an unemployed puppeteer in a forlorn marriage with his pet-obsessed wife Lotte (Cameron Diaz). Schwartz spends most of his time in his workshops working on new scripts for his puppet shows and creating sets for the same. Lotte pushes Schwartz to get a full-time job until he starts making steady money from his puppet shows.
Schwartz continues to conduct street shows, but the real money follows celebrity puppeteers who conduct shows with huge puppets hanging from cranes down the side of a bridge, which also garners media attention. Schwartz sees an ad in the newspapers from Lester Crop looking for a man with fast fingers for a filing clerk job.
Gaining a file clerk job through Dr. Lester (Orson Bean) at Lester Corp, in the strange Floor 7½ low-ceiling offices of the Mertin Flemmer Building in New York City, he develops an attraction to his co-worker Maxine (Catherine Keener), who does not return his affections.
The only way to enter the office is to stop the lift between the 7th and 8th floor and pry the doors open with a crowbar. Floris (Mary Kay Place) is the office secretary and has a hearing defect, but she has Dr Lester convinced that he is the one with a speech impediment. Lester says that the 7 ½ floor was created by the creator of the building as a working space for dwarf people.
Since the rent and the overheads of this low ceiling floor were much lesser, it was gradually taken over by corporate. Maxine finally agrees to go on a dinner with Schwartz. Despite all sorts of angels, Maxine is clear that she will never sleep with Schwartz. Schwartz was tempted towards Maxine as he could not spend time at home with all of Lotte's pets and hearing about their health problems. Lester claims that he is 105 years old and that the secret to his long life is carrot juice.
Schwartz discovers a small door behind a filing cabinet from which he enters into a long dark cave. The door shuts behind him and Schwartz is propelled forward by a gush of wind that takes him to a source of light at the end of the tunnel.
Schwartz finds himself in the mind of actor John Malkovich, which he realizes when John stands in front of a mirror. Schwartz is able to observe and sense whatever Malkovich does for fifteen minutes before he is ejected and dropped into a ditch near the New Jersey Turnpike. Schwartz reveals the portal to Maxine, and they decide to let others use it at $200 a turn. Schwartz tells Lotte, who becomes obsessed with the experience, allowing her to live out her transgender desires. She and Craig visit Dr. Lester's home, where Lotte finds a room filled with Malkovich memorabilia. Maxine arranges a date with Malkovich while he is inhabited by Lotte, who becomes smitten with Maxine. She reciprocates, but only when Lotte is inside Malkovich; Maxine manipulates him into having sex with her while Lotte is in his mind. Schwartz, forsaken by both women, locks up Lotte in a cage and forces her to set up another tryst with Maxine. Unknown to Maxine, he then enters into Malkovich's mind and has a sexual encounter with Maxine. Drawing on his puppeteer profession, Schwartz discovers that he is able to control Malkovich's actions while in his head, causing the actor to become paranoid. After consulting with his friend Charlie Sheen, Malkovich trails Maxine to the Mertin Flemmer building, where he finds and tries the portal and is placed in a world where everyone looks like him and can only say "Malkovich". He is ejected and meets Schwartz by the turnpike, and angrily demands that the portal be closed, to which Schwartz refuses. Craig refuses. Lotte is freed by her pet chimpanzee and warns Maxine that Craig is inhabiting Malkovich, but Maxine is attracted to Craig's ability to control him. Lotte confronts Dr. Lester, who reveals that he is in fact Captain Mertin, who, having discovered the portal to a "vessel body" in the late 1800s, erected the Mertin-Flemmer building to conceal it. He has obtained immortality by moving from one body to the next, which becomes "ripe" on the host's 44th birthday, allowing him to take possession. If he were to enter the portal past midnight on that day, he would instead be trapped in the next newborn vessel, helpless inside the new host's mind. This time, Lester has invited a group of friends to join him in occupying Malkovich once he turns 44, and Lotte warns them that Craig has taken control. Meanwhile, Schwartz finds he is able to remain in Malkovich indefinitely. He spends the next eight months in Malkovich's body and through his control, turns Malkovich into a world-famous puppeteer, revitalizing puppetry. Malkovich also gets married to Maxine and learns that she is pregnant, as their relationship grows distant. Malkovich's 44th birthday approaches so Dr. Lester and his friends capture Maxine, threatening to kill her if Schwartz does not leave. Lotte loses hope and attempts to kill Maxine, but they end up at the turnpike after falling through the portal and Malkovich's shame-ridden subconscious. Maxine reveals that she conceived when Lotte was inside Malkovich's body and kept the child because it is theirs. The revelation cements their love for each other. Eventually, Schwartz leaves Malkovich's body voluntarily, hoping to win Maxine back. Malkovich finds that he has regained control of himself, but his joy is cut short as moments later Dr. Lester and his friends enter the portal. Schwartz, discovering that Lotte and Maxine are together again, enters the portal in an attempt to become Malkovich and regain Maxine, but is too late and finds himself in the next host: Emily, the baby of Maxine. Schwartz is permanently imprisoned and must now spend the next 40 years watching Maxine and Lotte live happily ever after through Emily's eyes. Later, an aging Malkovich, under the collective mind of Dr. Lester and his friends, reveals to a now aged Sheen a plan to prolong their lives through Emily.