movieId: 1287
title: Ben-Hur
year: 1959
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0052618/
ratingValue: 
directors: William Wyler
actors: Charlton Heston, Jack Hawkins, Haya Harareet, Stephen Boyd, Hugh Griffith, Martha Scott, Cathy O'Donnell, Sam Jaffe, Finlay Currie, Frank Thring

synopsis:
At the start of AD (in the year of the Lord), the Kingdom of Judeah is under Roman rule. Caesar has been Emperor for 7 years and orders every Judean to return to their place of birth, so they can be counted and taxed appropriately. Many Judeans return to Jerusalem, the troubled part of their land. The old city was dominated by the fortress of Antonia, the seat of Roman power.
Despite Roman rule, the people of Judeah remembered the words of their Prophets that one day a redeemer would be born among them who would bring them salvation and perfect freedom. The Lord's birth is heralded by a bright star that shines upon a stable at night, where Mary gives birth to Jesus. The three wise men known as the Magi visit the baby in Bethlehem and their names are Melchior, Caspar, and Balthasar. In AD 26 Judah Ben-Hur (Charlton Heston) is a wealthy prince and merchant in Jerusalem. Jesus is a carpenter but spends more time in the hills connecting with nature. Judah's childhood friend, the Roman citizen Messala (Stephen Boyd), is now a tribune. After several years away from Jerusalem, Messala returns as the new commander of the Roman garrison at the Fortress Antonia. Judeah is resisting Roman rule, refusing to pay taxes and refusing to accept the Roman Gods in the hope that their own savior will free them one day.
Messala learns of a carpenter's son spreading the message that God is in every living thing and performs magic tricks. Messala believes in the glory of Rome and its imperial power, while Ben-Hur is devoted to his faith and the freedom of the Hebrew people. Messala asks Ben-Hur for the names of Hebrews who criticize the Romans. Ben-Hur refuses. Ben-Hur lives with his mother, Miriam (Martha Scott), and sister, Tirzah (Cathy O'Donnell). Their loyal slave Simonides (Sam Jaffe) is preparing for an arranged marriage for his daughter, Esther (Haya Harareet). Ben-Hur gives Esther her freedom as a wedding present, and it is shown that Ben-Hur and Esther are in love even though her marriage to another man is imminent.
Tirzah was in love with Messala since they were kids. During the parade for the new governor of Judea, Valerius Gratus (Mino Doro), a tile falls from the roof of Ben-Hur's house. Gratus is thrown from his horse and nearly killed. Although Messala knows this was an accident, he condemns Ben-Hur to the galleys and imprisons Miriam and Tirzah. By punishing a known friend and prominent citizen, he hopes to intimidate the Hebrew populace. Ben-Hur swears to take revenge. Dying of thirst when his slave gang arrives at Nazareth, Ben-Hur collapses. But a local carpenter (indicated to be Jesus) gives him water. After three years as a galley slave, Ben-Hur is assigned to the flagship of the Roman Consul Quintus Arrius (Jack Hawkins), who has been charged with destroying a fleet of Macedonian pirates. Arrius admires Ben-Hur's self-discipline and offers to train him as a gladiator or charioteer. Ben-Hur declines the offer, declaring that God will aid him in his quest for vengeance. The Roman fleet encounters the Macedonians. Arrius orders all the rowers except Ben-Hur to be chained to their benches. Arrius' galley is rammed and sunk, but Ben-Hur unchains the other rowers, and saves Arrius' life. Arrius believes the battle ended in defeat, but Ben-Hur prevents him from committing suicide. Ben-Hur and Arrius are rescued, and Arrius is credited with the Roman fleet's victory. The consul successfully petitions Emperor Tiberius (George Relph) to free Ben-Hur, and adopts him as his son. Several years pass. Now wealthy, Ben-Hur learns Roman ways and becomes a champion charioteer, but longs for his family and homeland. Ben-Hur returns to Judea. Along the way, he meets Balthasar (Finlay Currie) and an Arab sheikh, Ilderim (Hugh Griffith). The sheikh has heard of Ben-Hur's prowess as a charioteer, and asks him to drive his Quadriga in a race before the new Judean governor Pontius Pilate (Frank Thring). Ben-Hur at first declines, despite knowing that Messala is competing. Balthasar tells Judah about a prophet he seeks who preaches love and forgiveness and urges Judah to cast off his consuming hate and vengeance. Ben-Hur returns to his home in Jerusalm. He meets Esther, and learns her arranged marriage did not occur and that she is still in love with him. Esther lives with her debilitated father and also Malluch (Ady Berber), a mute former prisoner. Messala tortured Simonides, who has protected Judah's fortune nonetheless. He visits Messala, presenting himself as Quintus Arrius' son and demands his mother and sister's freedom. Messala orders their release from the dungeons. The Romans discover that Miriam and Tirzah contracted leprosy in prison, and expel them from the city. Before leaving the city, the women find and beg Esther to conceal their condition from Judah. Esther tells Judah they are dead to stop him searching. Seeking revenge, Judah agrees to drive Sheik Ilderim's four horses against Messala in the chariot race. The sheikh goads Messala into making an enormous wager on himself before revealing Judah is his driver.
During the chariot race, Messala drives a chariot with blades on the hubs to tear apart competing vehicles. In the violent and grueling race, Messala attempts to destroy Ben-Hur's chariot but destroys his own instead. Dragged behind his horses, he is trampled by another chariot, while Judah wins the race.
Before dying, Messala tells Ben-Hur that "the race is not over" and that he can find his family "in the Valley of the Lepers, if you can recognize them." At the leper colony, Judah encounters Esther and Malluch bringing supplies to Miriam and Tirzah. Esther persuades him to conceal himself as his family would wish. Judah and Esther then follow a crowd to hear what is possibly Jesus Christ's Sermon on the Mount. Judah meets with Pontius Pilate, who fears Judah's victory will stoke rebellion against Roman rule. Judah rejects his patrimony and Roman citizenship. Returning to the leper colony, he reveals himself to Miriam and finds that Tirzah is dying. Judah and Esther take them to see Jesus Christ, but the trial of Jesus has begun. While carrying his cross through the streets, Jesus collapses. Judah recognizes him as the man who gave him water earlier and tries to give him water but a Roman soldier intervenes. As Judah and Balthazar witnessed Jesus' crucifixion, Miriam and Tirzah are sheltered in a cave with Esther during a violent storm and are miraculously cured. Realizing that forgiveness is better than revenge, Judah returns to his house and finds them healed. Embracing, the four rejoice at the miracle.