movieId: 6218
title: Bend It Like Beckham
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0286499/
ratingValue: 
directors: Gurinder Chadha
actors: Parminder Nagra, Keira Knightley, Jonathan Rhys Meyers, Anupam Kher, Archie Panjabi, Shaznay Lewis, Frank Harper, Juliet Stevenson, Shaheen Khan, Ameet Chana

synopsis:
Jesminder "Jess" Bhamra (Parminder Nagra) is the 18-year-old daughter of Punjabi Sikhs living in Hounslow, London. Juliette "Jules" Paxton (Keira Knightley) is the same age and the daughter of an English family with parents Alan (Frank Harper) and Paula (Juliet Stevenson).
Jess is infatuated with football but because she's a woman, her family won't let her play. However, she sometimes plays in the park with other boys and her best friend, Tony (Ameet Chana) who is a closet homosexual. The elder Bhamras are distracted by the elaborate wedding plans for Jess' older sister, Pinky (Archie Panjabi).
Jess is inspired by Beckham and how is able to bend a football around impregnable walls of players to slot it into the goal behind. Jess dreams of playing with Beckham in a professional football match. Jules discovers Jess' skills whilst on a jog through the park. She befriends Jess and invites her to try out for the local women's football team, the Hounslow Harriers coached by Joe (Jonathan Rhys Meyers). Joe is a young Irish former player whose own career was derailed by injuries.
Jess is extremely happy and excited about the try-outs even though Joe is skeptical about a new player joining the team. After seeing Jess' skills, Joe accepts her on the team. Jess lies to Joe about her parents being cool with the idea. Jess's parents (mainly her mother) forbid her to join the team, she continues playing in secret, claiming to have a summer job when she is actually at football practice. With Pinky covering for her, Jess travels with the team to play a match in Germany; the Harriers lose the match after Jess fails to score a penalty kick.
Jess develops an attraction towards Joe and when the team take a trip to Hamburg and go out clubbing, they're caught about to kiss by Jules; who also had a crush on Joe. This sours Jess and Jules' friendship as Jules was adamant that she had told Jess about her crush. When Jess arrives at Jules' house to patch up their friendship, Mrs. Paxton (Juliet Stevenson) is misled and thinks they're hiding a lesbian relationship. Although Jules's father correctly warns his wife that she is possibly jumping to the wrong conclusions, she remains adamant. Jess' parents, Mohaan Singh (Anupam Kher) and Sukhi (Shaheen Khan), find out that Jess has been playing football behind their backs after her father sees a newspaper article about the Hamburg match, they become stricter and prevent Jess from playing any more matches.
Jess's father secretly attends one of her games and sees Jess mocked with a racial slur by an opposing player, and Joe hugging her afterward to comfort her. Thanks to Jess and Jules' skills, the Harriers reach the finals of the league tournament. Unfortunately, the final and the wedding are on the same day. Joe pleads with Mr. Bhamra to allow Jess to play but he refuses. Mr. Bharma reveals that he doesn't want Jess to suffer the same way he did when he was kicked out of the cricket club because of his race.
Joe pleads with Mr Bhamra to let Jess play, but he is firm & Joe is forced to start the finals without her. A talent scout is also at the game who will choose players for the US professional women's soccer league. It's a once in a lifetime opportunity. Halfway through Pinky's wedding, Tony convinces Mr. Bhamra to let Jess go. Jess is visibly miserable; her father tells her to go to the game so she can be happy on her sister's wedding day. Tony drives Jess to the game where the Harriers are losing 1-0 with half an hour left.
Jess and Jules tie the score, and when Jess is awarded a free kick, she must bend the ball around the wall of players to score. Jess succeeds and the Harriers win the tournament. Jess and Jules are offered scholarships at Santa Clara University in California. Jules tells her parents immediately whereas Jess has trouble telling hers.
Jules and Mrs. Paxton arrive at the wedding for Jules to celebrate with Jess. Mrs. Paxton accuses Jess of being a hypocrite and a lesbian. Jules drags her mother away, angrily clarifying her friendship with Jess and her sexual orientation. Later that day, Jess has still not told her parents about the scholarship; she is afraid they might not allow her to go to the United States on her own. Tony, attempting to help Jess, decides to lie to the family and tell them he will get engaged to Jess as long as she gets to go to any college she wants. The Bhamras happily accept, but Jess immediately confesses the truth. Jess's mother ignores Jess's heartfelt speech and scolds Jess's father for letting Jess leave Pinky's wedding. But her father announces he doesn't want Jess to suffer as he did and accepts her desire to play football, eventually leading her mother to finally accept it as well. Jess runs to the football field to tell Joe of her parents' decision. The two almost kiss, but Jess pulls away, saying her parents would object, and that although they had come far enough to let her go to the United States to play, she doesn't think they would be able to handle another cultural rebellion from her. On the day of Jess and Jules's flight to the United States, the two are about to board the plane when Joe arrives and confesses his love for Jess. The two kiss secretly and Jess agrees to sort out their relationship (and her parents) when she returns for Christmas. While at the airport, they see David Beckham with his wife Victoria, which Jules takes as a good sign. The two leave through the gate waving happily to their families. While Jess and Jules are away, they send a team photo indicating their continued success in football. Pinky is revealed to be pregnant, and Mr. Bhamra gets back into playing cricket and is seen playing outside with Joe and Pinky's husband.