movieId: 4571
title: Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure
year: 1989
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0096928/
ratingValue: 
directors: Stephen Herek
actors: Keanu Reeves, Alex Winter, George Carlin, Terry Camilleri, Dan Shor, Tony Steedman, Rod Loomis, Al Leong, Jane Wiedlin, Robert V. Barron

synopsis:
In 2688, humanity exists as a utopian society due to the inspiration of the music and philosophy of the Two Great Ones: William "Bill" S. Preston, Esq., and Ted Theodore Logan. One of the citizens, Rufus, is tasked by the leaders to travel back to San Dimas, California, in 1988 using a phone booth-shaped time machine to ensure that the young Bill and Ted, two dim-witted high school students, successfully pass history class. If they fail, Ted's father, police Captain Logan, plans to ship Ted to a military school in Alaska, ending Bill and Ted's fledgling band, Wyld Stallyns, and altering history. Rufus finds the two teens at a Circle K convenience store, struggling to finish their history report, in which they must describe how historical figures would view the present San Dimas. Rufus offers his help before another phone-booth time machine arrives and future versions of Bill and Ted step out. After assuring the present-day Bill and Ted that Rufus's claims are true and that they can trust him, they disappear in the time booth. Rufus shows Bill and Ted how to operate the time booth, taking them back to 1805 where they find Napoleon Bonaparte leading his forces against Austria. As Rufus, Bill and Ted return to the present, Napoleon is thrown by a cannonball explosion into their wake, and is dragged through the Circuits of Time along with them. Rufus explains that time will continue to progress normally for Bill and Ted and that they cannot miss their class presentation the next day; he then departs, leaving the empty time booth for them. As they discuss where to go next, they discover Napoleon stuck in a nearby tree, inspiring them to abduct historical figures and take them to the present for their school presentation. They leave Napoleon with Ted's younger brother Deacon before they go. They befriend Billy the Kid in the Wild West, and Socrates in Ancient Greece, before stopping in 15th-century England, where they fall in love with princesses Joanna and Elizabeth. Their father, the king, tries to have them executed, but Billy and Socrates help them escape. The booth, which is slightly damaged in the process, takes them to the far future, where they find a society that reveres them and their future band. They are inspired to complete their report with "extra credit" by abducting Sigmund Freud, Ludwig van Beethoven, Joan of Arc, Genghis Khan and Abraham Lincoln. After a brief stop in prehistoric times to repair the booth, they program it to return to the present, but end up outside the Circle K the night before, where Rufus was first introducing himself. They convince their earlier selves of Rufus's trustworthiness before he explains to them how to get to the next day. When they arrive, they learn that Deacon has abandoned Napoleon at a bowling alley. They leave the other historical figures at the mall to learn about San Dimas while they seek out Napoleon at Waterloo, a local water park. The historical figures get into trouble at the mall and are arrested by Captain Logan. Bill and Ted execute an escape plan based on using the time booth in the future to set up what they need in the present. They break their historical friends out of jail, then present each of them to the assembled school using stage lighting effects and rousing music. Their "report" earns a standing ovation, and they pass the course. Some time later, Rufus returns, accompanied by the two princesses, whom he has rescued from pre-arranged marriages. He says that they will also be part of Wyld Stallyns, and that the four of them will change the world with their music. He asks to jam with them-but on hearing their fledgling attempts to play, he turns to the movie audience and assures them, "They do get better."