movieId: 3705
title: Bird on a Wire
year: 1990
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0099141/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Badham
actors: Mel Gibson, Goldie Hawn, David Carradine, Bill Duke, Stephen Tobolowsky, Joan Severance, Harry Caesar, Jeff Corey, Alex Bruhanski, John Pyper-Ferguson

synopsis:
Marianne "Muffie" Graves (Goldie Hawn), a former hippie, is a successful lawyer completing a business deal in Detroit, Michigan. Her boyfriend was supposed to meet her in Detroit, but changed plans at the last minute, so she is all alone there.
At a gas station, she crosses paths with a man that looks and sounds exactly like her hippie ex-fiance, Rick Jarmin (Mel Gibson), who disappeared in a plane crash 15 years previously and is presumed dead. The man pretends to be a Vietnam War veteran and Marianne apologizes, says that Rick would never have served in that war, and then leaves. The terrified man then makes a call saying that he has been recognized and needs to be moved. 15 years earlier, Rick testified against a murderous drug-smuggling DEA agent named Eugene Sorenson (David Carradine) and has been in the witness protection program ever since. Unfortunately, his old handler Lou Baird (Jeff Corey) has retired and his new handler, FBI agent Joe Weyburn (Stephen Tobolowsky), is being blackmailed into colluding with Sorenson. Promising to have Rick moved immediately, Weyburn writes down the gas station's address and leaks it to Sorenson. Joe lies to Rick and says Sorenson is still in Jail & Diggs is in South America. Meanwhile, Sorenson has been released on parole; his partner, Albert "Diggs" Diggins (Bill Duke), picks him up and they set out to kill Rick for revenge and to smooth the passage of their new dealings with the Colombian drug cartels (Rick is the only living person who can put Diggs behind bars with his testimony).
Marianne returns to confront Rick just as Diggs and Sorenson show up at the gas station with shotguns blazing. During the gunfight, Rick gets buckshot in his buttocks and his kindly old boss is killed. Marianne escapes with Rick, but Sorenson and Diggs pin the gas station owner's murder on Rick. They are forced to go on the run as Weyburn wipes out Rick's file from the computers (after saving the data on a floppy disk) and sends police to catch them. Marianne takes Rick to her hotel where she lambastes him for bailing on her during their relationship. The next morning Rick calls the FBI to reach Weyburn, only to realize that all his records at the FBI have been erased (they don't any of his current and previous aliases on their file). Shortly thereafter, Rick and Marianne are attacked in the hotel room by Sorenson and Diggs, and only Rick's anticipation of the attack saves them as they climb out the window and walk across the ledge to escape to the other side of the hotel.
Rick tells Marianne how Rick and his friends flew (in a private plane) down south to buy some kilos of drugs to distribute. But he and his friends got high and started talking big. Sorenson got word and forced Rick to fly his drugs to an unmarked airstrip in the US. But the US agencies were waiting for Sorenson and Sorenson started shooting at them. Rick and his friend tried to stop Sorenson, but he shot Rick's friend. Diggs got away. Rick testified against Sorenson for immunity against his own prosecution. The FBI tries to arrest Rick, but he beats them up and escapes with Muffie. To clear their names, Rick needs to reach his old handler in St Louis. They use contacts from Rick's former life-in-hiding, including at a beauty salon where he was pretending to be an effeminate gay man and was the star hairdresser, and an old flame, a veterinarian who removes the buckshot from his ass. When Rick and Muffie go into a bank to withdraw cash, they quickly find that FBI had frozen their accounts and posted an alert on their account activity. They manage to escape after grabbing some cash from the teller. they reach the old flame Rachel (Joan Severance) who is also a vet. Joe tracks down Rick and attacks via a helicopter, but Rachel fights back with a shotgun and helps Rick and Muffie escape in a turbo prop plane.
During a night spent in a hotel room, Rick tells Marianne everything that happened 15 years ago. They share their feelings and have passionate sex. The next morning Rick barters Muffie's expensive watch for a car, while Muffie calls her employer to let them know where she is. Unknown to her, the employer was in touch with Joe, and promptly reports her location to Joe. They reach the home of his old handler and find out he has Alzheimer's disease and thus doesn't remember Rick. Sorenson, Diggs and Weyburn show up, so Rick and Marianne retreat to a nearby zoo where Rick once worked. He releases animals from their cages to assist in their defense, and all three men are killed in various ways by the animals. Wounded, Rick winds up suspended over a tiger in a pit, requiring Marianne to save him. When she is not quite able to reach him, he offers her the extra incentive of marriage and children, which does the trick. They are then seen boating into the sunset in the Caribbean.