movieId: 3788
title: Blow-Up
year: 1966
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0060176/
ratingValue: 
directors: Michelangelo Antonioni
actors: Vanessa Redgrave, Sarah Miles, David Hemmings, John Castle, Jane Birkin, Gillian Hills, Peter Bowles, Veruschka von Lehndorff, Julian Chagrin, Claude Chagrin

synopsis:
A day in the life of a glamorous fashion photographer, Thomas (David Hemmings), inspired by the life of an actual "Swinging London" photographer, David Bailey. Thomas tries to disguise himself as an everyday working man. He wants to capture the human life and emotions in its raw form by experiencing it up close. After spending the night at a doss house (a cheap lodging for the homeless and tramps) where he has taken pictures for a book of art photos, Thomas is late for a photo shoot with Veruschka at his studio, which in turn makes him late for a shoot with other models later in the morning. Veruschka is angry at Thomas for keeping her waiting for over an hour. Veruschka says that she has a plane to catch for Paris at 11 AM and now she is likely to be late.
Thomas shoots several reels of photos with Veruschka in various poses. Thomas is great at working with models to get the emotions and poses he wants. Reg (Reg Wilkins) is Thomas's assistant.
Thomas does another photo shoot with a group of 6 models. He treats the models very badly when he doesn't get what he wants on the sets. He grows bored and walks off, leaving the models and production staff in the lurch. As he leaves the studio, two teenage girls who are aspiring models (Jane Birkin and Gillian Hills) ask to speak with him, but the photographer drives off to look at an antiques shop. Antique shop owner (Susan Brodrick) and the shopkeeper (Harry Hutchinson) tell Thomas that they have no cheap bargains in their shop. Thomas is looking for landscapes, but the shopkeeper says that they are all sold.
The owner wants to go to Nepal. Thomas buys a propeller from her for 8 pounds and loads the propeller into his car. But the owner offers to get it delivered to him later. Wandering into Maryon Park, he takes photos of two lovers. The woman Jane (Vanessa Redgrave) is furious at being photographed. Jane demands the film and offers to pay for it. Thomas agrees to part with the film, but not right then and there. Jane runs away and Thomas takes a few more pictures of the park, but Jane's lover is nowhere to be seen.
The photographer then meets his agent Ron (Peter Bowles) for lunch and notices a man following him and looking into his car. Back at his studio, the woman Jane arrives asking for the film (but doesn't say how she found Thomas). Thomas wants to know why Jane wants the roll back, but Jane says that her private life is already a mess. Jane is desperate and Thomas tries to engage her in idle chit-chat. Jane even offers sex to him in exchange for the roll.
Thomas deliberately hands her a different roll. She in turn writes down a false telephone number to give to him.
After Jane leaves, Thomas goes to his dark room to develop the film. The initial photos of the park look a bit odd to Thomas. His many enlargements of the black and white film are grainy but seem to show a dead body in the grass and a killer lurking in the trees with a gun. Thomas tries to call Jane, but she had given him a wrong number. It also looked like Jane knew that there was a shooter hiding in the bushes and she was looking in his direction. In the later photos, he finds a dead body lying the grass, with Jane running away from the camera.
He is disturbed by a knock on the door, but it is the two girls again, with whom he has a romp in his studio and falls asleep. Awakening, he finds they hope he will photograph them, but he tells them to leave, saying, "Tomorrow! Tomorrow!" As evening falls, the photographer goes back to the park and finds the body of a man (it is the same man that Jane was shown to be having a romp with earlier in the day), but he has not brought his camera and is scared off by a twig breaking, as if being stepped on. The photographer returns to his studio to find that all the negatives and prints are gone except for one very grainy blowup showing the body. His dark room has been vandalized and his equipment damaged. After driving into town, he sees the woman Jane and follows her into a club where The Yardbirds, featuring both Jimmy Page and Jeff Beck on guitar and Keith Relf on vocals, are seen performing the song "Stroll On." A buzz in Beck's amplifier angers him so much he smashes his guitar on stage, then throws its neck into the crowd, the photographer makes a grab for it as a souvenir. The photographer grabs the neck and runs out of the club before anyone can snatch it from him. Then he has second thoughts about it, throws it on the pavement and walks away. A passer-by picks up the neck and throws it back down, not realizing it's from Beck's guitar. At a drug-drenched party in a house on the Thames near central London, the photographer finds both Veruschka, who had told him that she was going to Paris - when confronted, she says she is in Paris - and his agent Ron, whom he wants to bring to the park as a witness. However, the photographer cannot put across what he has photographed. Waking up in the house at sunrise, he goes back to the park alone and finds that the body is gone. Befuddled, he watches a mimed tennis match, is drawn into it, picks up the imaginary ball and throws it back to the two players. While he watches the mime, the sound of the ball being played is heard. As the photographer watches this mimed match alone on the lawn, his image fades away, leaving only the grass.