movieId: 6334
title: Blue Car
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0290145/
ratingValue: 
directors: Karen Moncrieff
actors: David Strathairn, Agnes Bruckner, Margaret Colin, Frances Fisher, A.J. Buckley, Regan Arnold, Sarah Buehler, Dustin Sterling, Michael Joseph Thomas Ward, Wayne Armstrong

synopsis:
Meg is a high school senior living in the Dayton, Ohio area. She uses writing as an outlet for her troubled home life, having been abandoned by her father and now neglected by her mother Diane, whose busy work schedule leaves Meg as the babysitter for her younger sister, Lily. The girls' father does not pay child support, causing financial strain for the family. After Meg reads aloud a poem (titled "Blue Car") in her English class, her teacher, Mr. Auster, recognizes her talent and assumes the role of a mentor and father figure for her. He encourages Meg to enter a local poetry competition, which she ends up winning. Mr. Auster recommends she next compete at the national competition in Florida during spring break. Meg's home life worsens when Lily displays increasingly worrying emotional behavior; she cuts herself, refuses to eat, and speaks about becoming an angel. After being checked into the psychiatric ward of a hospital, Lily kills herself by jumping out of an open window as she tries to "fly". A distraught Meg finds solace in Mr. Auster, who reveals he lost a son. During their one-on-one poetry tutoring, she learns he is also writing a novel. When Diane says she does not have the money to pay for her daughter's Florida trip, Meg resorts to stealing. This results in Meg getting fired from her after-school job and her moving out to stay with her friend, Georgia. At Georgia's place, Meg becomes acquainted with Georgia's older brother, Pat. When she tells Pat she's trying to find a way to get to Florida, he offers her a way to make money by stealing prescription drugs. Meg takes up the offer and steals from a pharmacy for him. The following day, Meg discovers that Pat has skipped town with the money. Meg ends up taking a bus by herself to Florida and sleeps on the beach. On the day before the competition, she spots Mr. Auster with his family relaxing near the water. When she walks over to say hi, his wife Delia invites her to join them. When Mr. Auster is not paying attention, Delia makes a comment to Meg that hints that their marriage is troubled. Later, Mr. Auster walks alone with Meg on the beach and kisses her. They go to a hotel room, where Meg reluctantly has sex with Mr. Auster. He stops after realizing that she is not comfortable with the situation. Meg learns that Mr. Auster has not written a novel at all, and that it was all just a ruse to impress her. At the competition the following day, Meg leaves her "Blue Car" poem on her chair when she is called to the mic. She recites a new poem in which she subtly denounces Mr. Auster for manipulating her and abusing his authority. In the audience, Mr. Auster and his wife look visibly uncomfortable. After finishing her reading, Meg leaves the auditorium, and, later on the beach alone, she throws the old poem into the water. Meg returns to Ohio and goes to Diane's apartment, where she has an emotional reconciliation with her mother. Diane leaves Meg a box containing old wedding photos of her and Meg's father. The next day, Meg, who is now going to live with her father, gets into a blue car with him and they drive off.