movieId: 6696
title: Bollywood/Hollywood
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0303785/
ratingValue: 
directors: Deepa Mehta
actors: Rahul Khanna, Lisa Ray, Moushumi Chatterjee, Dina Pathak, Kulbhushan Kharbanda, Ranjit Chowdhry, Jessica Paré, Rishma Malik, Jasbir Mann, Arjun Lombardi-Singh

synopsis:
Rahul Seth (Rahul Khanna), is a young and rich Indian-Canadian living in Toronto whose widowed mother Ruby (Moushumi Chatterjee) is eager to get him married after the freak-accidental death of his white pop singer girlfriend, Kimberly (Jessica Pare). Rahul's mother disapproved of her son's relationship with a non-Indian woman. Rahul's grandmother quotes Shakespear and was equally critical of Kimberly as she is too thin, doesn't know her caste or her village. Furthermore, Rahul's mother has proclaimed that the impending wedding of her daughter Twinky (Rishma Malik) and Bobby (Jazz Mann) will not take place until Rahul has found himself an Indian bride. Rahul's mother parades an army of Indian women in front of Rahul, but all of them are too boring and too much alike in their views to excite Rahul. Rahul's mother promises to accept a girl that Rahul likes, but she would have to be an Indian. Rahul protests but his mother would break down into tears and force him to relent. The pressure mounts on Rahul as he finds out that Twinky must marry soon to preserve the family's reputation because she is pregnant.
10 years ago, Rahul's father had told him to uphold the Indian family values on his deathbed. He told Rahul that the family was now his responsible. Rahul goes to a bar and there meets Sue (Lisa Ray). Thinking she is a Spanish escort (non-sexual companion) (She also recites poetry in Spanish and is intelligent and witty), he hires her to pose as his fiance because she looks Indian. He will pay for her hotel for a week and pay her an extra $5000 if she can complete her mission. Sue says the deal will have no sex, she has to be home by 12 midnight, and if it doesn't work out - no refunds.
Rahul's limo driver Rocky is a Queen and performs at the queer bars when he is off duty. Rahul tells Rocky about his deal with Sue. Rahul purchases a whole new wardrobe for Sue. Sue speaks bluntly to all, particularly to Rocky (Ranjit Chowdhry), who she knows (but does not reveal to others) is a famous drag queen. Rahul introduces Sue to his family at Twinky's Sangeet ceremony. Akshaye Khanna is invited to the party as a wedding guest. Sue is an instant hit as the guys find her hot and all the women approve of her. Sue stuns Rahul by performing a Bollywood dance number with Akshaye. Sue had told the family that her parents had already passed on. Rahul eventually discovers that Sue is actually Indian (her name is short for Sunita). Despite his initial anger at her lie, the two grow closer, due in no small part to a confidence boost Sue gave to Rahul's tormented younger brother, Govind (Arjun Lombardi-Singh), who incorrectly believes that no one cares about his welfare. Govind was being bullied at school and Sue teaches him to stand up for himself and to be cool at school. Rahul and Sue eventually consider one another a fit match. Pleased, Mrs. Seth agrees to sanction Twinky's wedding.
Sue's parents do not approve of her lifestyle as they have very conservative views about women in Indian society. Sue's father (who is a car mechanic) wants her to get a normal day job and stop being outside till late night and wearing skimpy clothes. Sue promises her mother (who puts fortune quotes inside fortune cookies) that she is not doing anything that she would be ashamed of. Rahul and Sue grow more intimate, sharing stories about their pasts. It is revealed that Sue was once offered as a bride to the well-meaning but dim-witted professional wrestler Killer Khalsa (Mike Deol); offended that her parents would even consider such a match, she has been playing mischief in revenge. Khalsa had offered to open a BMW dealership for Sue's father.
To become an escort was the quickest way to get back at her parents. Sue is quite immune to social norms. Rahul is relieved to learn that Sue is not a prostitute. He says that he cannot help that he has middle class morals. They both admit their feelings for each other and kiss. The blossoming romance is shaken, when a drunken friend at Bobby's bachelor party states that Sue is a prostitute, and that he himself has paid her for sex in the past. Rahul is uncertain, causing Sue to be so hurt that he would question her honesty and integrity that she leaves him. He is forced to confess to his family that he never really courted Sue but merely bribed her to act the part of his fiance. His mother is forced to postpone Twinky's wedding until Rahul can find a new bride, becoming despondent that Twinky's pregnancy will make the family social outcasts, for which Rahul calls her out for being a hypocrite. Twinky enters the room and tells her mother to stop crying, as Twinky and Bobby have eloped. Twinky thanks Rahul for doing so much to help her. Prodded by Rocky ("Sue ma'am is special. Anyone who can keep a secret deserves the best"), by his insightful, Shakespeare-quoting grandmother (Dina Pathak) and by the ghosts of his father (Jolly Bader) and Kimberly, Rahul goes after Sue. In a balcony scene facilitated by Sue's father (Kulbhushan Kharbanda) and mother (Neelam Mansingh), Rahul professes his true love to Sue, who abruptly leaves him standing outside her balcony. Rahul initially leaves in his limo, then tells Rocky to return to Sue's house, only to find that Sue has replaced Rocky in the driver's seat.