movieId: 4914
title: Breathless
year: 1960
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0053472/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jean-Luc Godard
actors: Jean Seberg, Jean-Paul Belmondo, Richard Balducci, José Bénazéraf, René Bernard, Daniel Boulanger, Gérard Brach, Philippe de Broca, Jean Domarchi

synopsis:
Michel Poiccard (Jean-Paul Belmondo) is a petty crook who wants to be like the gangsters that Humphrey Bogart played in the movies. With the help from his girlfriend, he steals a car in Marseilles, but he drives off without her. He speeds along a country road, muttering to himself and pretending to shoot his gun at people he passes. He pulls over to the side and a motorcycle cop shows up. Michel casually shoots and kills the policeman. The newspapers all over France report that the Paris police are looking for the murderer of the cop. Michel arrives in Paris where he steal money from the purse of a model. He then looks for Patricia Franchini (Jean Seberg), an American girl he met recently in Nice. He finds her walking the streets and hawking at the English-language newspaper the New York Herald Tribune. He tells her that he doesn't enjoy sleeping with other women. He wants her to run off to Rome with him. He is jealous when she keeps an appointment with an Americna journalist. Michael follows her around Paris in a stolen car. The journalist (Van Doude) has arranged for her to interview Parvulesco (Jean-Pierrre Melville) a famous novelist. When Patricia tells the journalist that she is pregnant, he worries that she considers having an abortion... because the baby that she is carrying is probably Michel's. She responds by telling the journalist: "I don't know if I'm unhappy because I am free or not free because I'm unhappy." Patricia returns to her tiny apartment and finds Michel in her bed. During his lengthy visit they talk, they flirt, she discusses books, he talks about dying, she slaps him, he proposes they sleep together, she keeps refusing. She isn't sure if she loves him. She tells Michel that she thinks she's pregnant by him. Michel replies: "You should have been more careful." They sleep together. When other contacts fall through, Michel arranges to pick up money from his friend Antionio Berrutti (Jacques Huet) so he can leave Paris with Patricia. However, Michel is spotted on the streets by an informer who tells the police. Meanchile, Patricia carries on a philosophical interview with Parvulesco. The police question Patricia about Michel. When the police inspector (Daniel Boulanger) tells her, "Careful, one doesn't joke with the Paris police!", Patricia breaks down and admits that she knows Michel and promises to call them the next time she sees him. Michel beats up a man who tinkers with his car. He knows that there is a dragnet out for him because of the newspaper reports and from having seen the police tail Patricia. Michel takes Patricia to a local cinema to watch a film while they make out. He and Patricia hide out waiting for Antonio to deliver the money. Patricia call the police and tells them where Michel is. She doesn't want to go away with him. She tells Michel about her phone call, saying he has just enough time to escape. "Because I'm mean to you, it proves I don't love you!" she insists. He tells her he doesn't care if he goes to prison for the rest of his life. He makes no effort to escape. Antonio drives up with the money and a gun. He forces the gun on Michel when he sees the police arrive. Trapped, Michel has no choice but to run. He is shot in the back by a policeman. Patricia stands over the dying Michel just as he calls her a "degueulasse" ("bitch"). She doesn't understand what that word means. As Michel dies, she rubs her finger over her bottom lip, just like Bogart and Michel used to do.