movieId: 7457
title: Breakin' All the Rules
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0349169/
ratingValue: 
directors: Daniel Taplitz
actors: Jamie Foxx, Gabrielle Union, Morris Chestnut, Peter MacNicol, Jennifer Esposito, Bianca Lawson, Jill Ritchie, Samantha Nagel, Grace Chan, Danny Comden

synopsis:
In Los Angeles, Quincy and his cousin Evan work at Spoil magazine. Quincy is an editor but Evan's job is never specified. Evan warns Quincy that Philip (known as Junior) is now in charge and plans layoffs. Philip calls Quincy to his office, but it is not to let him go. Because of Quincy's psychology degree, Philip believes Quincy is the right person to design procedures for laying people off without making them mad enough to take revenge. Quincy takes numerous books home where he is greeted by his girlfriend Helen's dog, who is still there for some reason. Quincy goes to Sig Sag to meet Helen, for their engagement party. But Helen wants to spend time apart. Quincy returns to work with a plan for firing people, and Philip hands him a list of the people to let go and tells Quincy to do it. After having to fire Sam, who thought he was coming in for a friendly chat, Quincy puts his name on the list of people to fire and walks out. Evan comes to Quincy's house because his mother was concerned about him. Quincy is a mess and so is the house. However, he has a big pile of papers on which he has attempted to write a breakup letter. That process is similar to being let go from a job. Spoil agrees to publish a book called Spoil's Breakup Handbook and before long it is climbing the newspaper's best-seller list. Quincy is making appearances at bookstores and on TV. Evan's girlfriend Nicky sees Quincy on TV while getting her hair done and realizes she wants to make a change. Afterward, she regrets what she has done. She had long hair but now looks like Halle Berry. Evan comes over but she won't let him see her so Evan goes to Quincy's house. Evan, thinking this means their relationship might be over, asks Quincy to meet with Nicky, telling him she has long hair. Quincy goes to Sig Sag where Evan and Nicky were supposed to meet but none of the girls with long hair are Nicky. But Quincy is attracted to the short-haired girl sitting next to him. Nicky has heard everything, and she decides to introduce herself as Mary. Quincy is supposed to say positive things about Evan, but he tells the truth about Evan instead, including some things that are not flattering. Quincy and Mary hit it off. Quincy tells Evan that Nicky never showed but he met a girl he likes. Also aware of Quincy's book is Rita, Philip's girlfriend. Philip wants to break up and on several occasions he and Quincy meet so Quincy can give him advice. Evan is still at Quincy's house, getting drunk and getting Helen's dog drunk. Rita shows up and, believing Evan is Quincy, says she knows Quincy is helping Philip break up with her. Rita indicates she wants a relationship with Quincy, who is a real man unlike the wimpy Philip, and when Evan wakes up he finds her phone number on the mirror. At Philip's place Rita is reading the book in the bathtub, and then the two have a conversation that doesn't go well. Evan goes to Nicky's place and when he sees her hair, says he doesn't like it. He says she stood him up but she says she didn't and that she went out with someone. Evan says he thought she wanted to break up while Nicky says she didn't want to. While massaging the flirtatious Mr. Lynch at work, Nicky tells co-worker Amy that Evan dumped her. Quincy doesn't know so Nicky continues to date him. However, when Evan asks for advice he says Nicky cut her hair. Quincy realizes Mary is Nicky but doesn't say anything. Helen is on a plane reading Quincy's book. Rita and Philip have naughty sex. After Heather Hadley's concert Nicky asks about Evan and Quincy says Evan and his girl broke up and Evan isn't happy. While Quincy and Nicky are making out, Quincy gets an angry phone call from Rita and Nicky hears the message. Believing Quincy is cheating on her, she gets mad. Quincy has no idea what the message is about. He visits her at work but is told she is not there. Evan and Rita, who still thinks he is Quincy, meet for sex. But she meets Philip in a post office since it is a public place where violence is less likely, and says she wants to get married. Quincy and Nicky meet in a park and admits who she is and Quincy says he didn't know, at first. At a surprise party for Quincy, everything goes wrong. Nicky didn't want to go but Amy insisted. Evan sees Nicky with Amy and hides. Helen is there, and she introduces herself to Nicky as Quincy's girlfriend. Then Rita also introduces herself. Evan, who now knows Quincy was dating Nicky, gets angry and leaves. Philip is in the hospital. The explanation is shown in flashbacks. As he and Rita plan for their wedding, Philip has a heart attack. When Evan and Quincy are visiting at the same time, Rita learns Evan is not Quincy but doesn't get mad. She wants to continue the relationship. Helen comes back to Quincy's place intending to resume their relationship. However, her dog now hates her. Later, she demands that Quincy have the dog put down. Quincy takes the dog to the animal shelter but is told that pugs don't usually get adopted. There are already several pugs. Quincy adopts them all and they chase Helen out of his house. Quincy wants to get back together with Nicky but learns she is taking a train to Portland. In fact, Nicky is taking Mr. Lynch on the train at the request of his daughter. Quincy narrowly misses seeing Nicky at the train station. Then he finds out what train she is on and starts chasing the train. Nicky pulls the emergency brake and the train stops, and they get on the train together, to Mr. Lynch's disappointment.