movieId: 8969
title: Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0317198/
ratingValue: 
directors: Beeban Kidron
actors: Renée Zellweger, Gemma Jones, Jim Broadbent, James Faulkner, Celia Imrie, Dominic McHale, Colin Firth, Donald Douglas, Shirley Dixon, Neil Pearson

synopsis:
It is Bridget's mother Pamela's (Gemma Jones) yearly Turkey Curry Buffet where Bridget has had some of the most shaming experiences of her life. Bridget (Renée Zellweger) is ecstatic about her relationship with Mark Darcy (Colin Firth). Bridget has been with Darcy for 6 weeks, 4 days and have had sex 71 times.
The dinner is attended by Bridget's father Colin (Jim Broadbent) and Uncle Geoffrey (James Faulkner). Bridget works at the morning TV show Sit Up Britain and is made to do assignments such as skydiving, where she barely manages to open the chute on time and lands in a pig pen. Bridget is frequently late to work after having sex with Darcy. Richard Finch (Neil Pearson) is Bridget's boss at work and only barely tolerates her. Bridget meets her ex, Daniel Cleaver (Hugh Grant), at her job for Sit-Up Britain and is offered a position as the "Smooth Guidess" on the show Daniel is hosting. Initially refusing, she declares Daniel is a "deceitful, sexist, disgusting specimen of humanity," but eventually signs on, despite her friends' (Jude (Shirley Henderson), Tom (James Callis) and Sharon "Shazza" (Sally Phillips)) misgivings.
Daniel says that it is a fact that most lawyer's wives die of boredom. Daniel says that he is sex therapy and is more in touch with his feelings. Janey Osborne (Lucy Robinson) is Darcy's colleague who runs into Bridget at a bar. She tells Bridget that while Darcy canceled his dinner with Bridget, but she saw him going into his home with Rebecca. Janey calls Rebecca drop dead gorgeous with a father who owns half of Australia. Janey also sows doubt in Bridget by saying that Mark has not yet invited her to the Law Council Dinner. However, Bridget's confidence in her relationship is shattered when she meets Mark's colleague, the beautiful Rebecca Gilles (Jacinda Barrett) at Darcy's house. Turns out Darcy was having a work meeting at his home with Rebecca and his other colleagues, which embarrasses Bridget. Darcy loves it that Bridget is so possessive about him. Bridget is delighted to be asked by Mark to go to the "Law Council Dinner", assuming he will propose afterwards, but the night does not end well.
Magda (Jessica Stevenson) helps Bridget gets dressed for the law council dinner. The underwear is way too tight and is designed to reduce the body size by 15%. Bridget wears an evening gown on top. After a botched hair cut, Bridget tries to do her make up in the cab, and over does it, reaching the venue looking like a baboon's behind.
Then Bridget ends up arguing with Darcy's senior Horatio (Alex Jennings), who is against charitable giving. Bridget argues that some people just need a little help in life and are not poor by choice. Bridget is then seated at the loser's table. After the "Law Council Dinner", Mark and Bridget have an argument (Mark calls her ridiculous and she calls him arrogant) and she walks away from him. Mark goes to Bridget's apartment, apologizes, and tells her he loves her for the first time. Later in the night, Mark asks Bridget if she'd like to go on a ski holiday to Lech, Austria. Once on the slopes, she learns Rebecca recommended the vacation spot to Mark. While on the holiday, Bridget thinks she's pregnant and after an argument concerning the future of children (Darcy plans to send his son to Eton for studies, but Bridget doesn't want to send her child to an uptight school), the test is negative. After they return home, Bridget and Mark have lunch with both of their parents. When the subject of marriage comes up during conversation, Bridget is hurt by Mark's comment that it's not something they're even thinking about yet. On their way to Mark's place, Bridget is upset at him for not giving a straight answer on his reasons for refusing to marry her.
Overhearing a message from Rebecca on Mark's answering machine (where she suggests coming over for a nightcap but changes her mind as Bridget might be there), Bridget confronts Mark and alleges his affair with Rebecca. He refuses "to dignify the question with an answer," (which according to her friends is the definitive proof that Darcy is having sex with Rebecca) and she breaks up with him.
Bridget decides to go with Daniel to Thailand to film "The Smooth Guide" with her friend, Shazzer (Sally Phillips). Bridget and Daniel flirt on the plane which leads to them alone in a hotel room, but she walks out after a prostitute arrives. Bridget sees he has not changed. Shazza has a fling with the much younger Jed (Paul Nicholls), who gives her a fertility snake bowl as a gift to take back to Britain.
While packing for the trip home from Thailand, Bridget puts Shazzer's gift from a man named Jed (Paul Nicholls) in her bag. Bridget is arrested and sent to a Thai prison after airport security dogs recognize cocaine inside the gift. In prison, Bridget spends her time-sharing relationship stories with the 50 other female inmates and teaching them Madonna's "Like a Virgin". Mark arrives to tell Bridget that his superiors have sent him to put her release in motion. Bridget identifies Jed on a picture as the man who gave Shazzer the hidden cocaine. After confirming Jed as the true perpetrator and that she "spent the night" with Daniel Cleaver, he declares her sex life does not interest him; Bridget does not correct his presumption, and he departs, leaving her sure he no longer loves her.
In Britain, Mark confronts Daniel for not helping Bridget when she was arrested, and they start a fight outside a museum. Daniel swears her off for good and says, "If you're so obsessed with Bridget Jones, why don't you just marry her?" At Bridget's return, she is an international human rights celebrity. She is greeted by her parents who have been busy planning their vow renewal ceremony. At home, she is surprised by her friends who inform her that Mark was the one who tracked down Jed and forced him into custody in order to free her, in the process putting into motion the British Government, Mi5, Interpol & many other diplomatic big-wigs. Hopeful that he still loves her, she runs down to his house, but finds Rebecca there, who reveals that she does not love Mark, but loves Bridget instead. Rebcca kisses her; though flattered, she politely turns her down. Bridget confronts Mark at his legal chambers and asks him to take her back. Mark proposes to Bridget, and she accepts. Bridget's parents renew their vows and Bridget catching the bouquet.