movieId: 2736
title: Brighton Beach Memoirs
year: 1986
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0090774/
ratingValue: 
directors: Gene Saks
actors: Jonathan Silverman, Blythe Danner, Stacey Glick, Lisa Waltz, Judith Ivey, Bob Dishy, Brian Drillinger, James Handy, Bette Henritze, Steven Hill

synopsis:
In September 1937, Eugene Jerome ( Jonathan Silverman ) is almost 15 and lives in a Jewish-American household in Brighton Beach with his parents Kate ( Blythe Danner ) and Jack, his 18-year-old brother Stanley ( Brian Drillinger ), his widowed, asthmatic aunt Blanche Morton, and her two daughters, pretty 16-year-old Nora and sickly 13-year-old Laurie ( Stacey Glick ). Blanche ( Judith Ivey ) is Kate's sister, and after being widowed in her 30s, she and her daughters moved in with the Jeromes, causing Jack ( Bob Dishy ) to take a second job to support the enlarged household. The extended family lives on the money from Jack's two jobs and Stanley's job at a men's hat shop. Each member of the family has their own personal problems and concerns, which end up affecting the other family members. Eugene, who hopes to go to college and become a writer, is obsessed with baseball and also attempting to see a well-developed girl naked, spying on both Nora ( Lisa Waltz ) and a sexy older woman neighbor. Jack loses his second job and is forced to work nights as a cab driver, until he has a minor heart attack, and must stop working entirely to rest. This puts pressure on the other men in the household. Jack also worries about his cousin and other relatives who still live in Poland, due to the ominous news bulletins coming from pre-World War II Europe. Stanley dislikes his job, but hesitates to quit because the family needs his salary and he doesn't want to put more stress on Jack, whom he fears might die. Kate is overwhelmed by the pressure of trying to take care of everyone, including her sister Blanche, who lacks confidence and is mutually attracted to the Jeromes' Irish neighbor Frank Murphy ( James Handy ), who sometimes drinks. Blanche grieves for her late husband who died three years ago, is lonely, and struggles with raising her daughters, especially Nora who takes dance lessons, aspires to a Broadway career and wants to accept a well-known producer's offer of an audition. Blanche, finally forced to make a decision, forbids Nora from auditioning, telling her she needs to finish high school first. Frank invites Blanche on a date, which she accepts despite Kate's disapproval. Kate lends Blanche her string of pearls for her date. Though other family are supportive of her, Nora has left for a movie date as retaliation for denying her the audition, causing Blanche to break down in tears right before Frank is due to arrive. Frank's mother, Mrs. Murphy ( Bette Henritze ), then breaks down as she lets Blanche know that Frank won't be able to keep the date due to a car accident he had while inebriated, is in the hospital, will likely face drunk-driving charges, and then the Murphys will be moving upstate New York to get Frank help for his drinking problem. Meanwhile, Stanley confesses to his mother Kate that he gambled and lost his entire weekly paycheck trying to make up for the family's loss of Jack's wages. Stanley then leaves home to join the Army. Kate and Blanche argue over Kate's lack of sympathy and charity for the Murphys. Blanche then decides to move out the next day, get her own job and apartment, and send for her daughters as soon as possible. The next day, Nora and Stanley (who at the last minute decides not to join the Army because his father needs him) both return home and are reunited with their respective parents. Kate and Blanche reconcile, and Kate suggests that Blanche remain with the family while she looks for a job, and also suggests Blanche might move into the Murphys' apartment across the street. To thank Eugene for his brotherly support, Stanley gives him a picture of a beautiful naked woman. Jack receives the good news that his Polish relatives have escaped from their country and are en route to New York, and the Jeromes excitedly plan for these new additions to their household.