movieId: 6503
title: Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0305357/
ratingValue: 
directors: McG
actors: Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu, Bernie Mac, Crispin Glover, Justin Theroux, Robert Patrick, Demi Moore, Rodrigo Santoro, Shia LaBeouf

synopsis:
After rescuing U.S. Marshal Ray Carter (Robert Patrick) in Mongolia, the Angels (Natalie Cook (Cameron Diaz), Dylan Sanders (Drew Barrymore), and Alex Munday (Lucy Liu)) and Jimmy Bosley (Bernie Mac) (John Bosley's adoptive brother) are sent to recover 2 titanium rings stolen from the United States Department of Justice that can display the people listed in the witness protection program (HALO - Hidden Alias List Operation). Carter's ribs were supposedly broken during the rescue.
DOJ official William Rose Bailey (Bruce Willis) and a protected witness, Alan Caulfield (Eric Bogosian) are among those killed. Bailey and Carter had the 2 rings, which are now stolen. Each ring alone is useless, but together the rings reveal the list of all protected witnesses. At Caulfield's house in San Bernardino, the Angels track his assassin Randy Emmers (Rodrigo Santoro) to a beach (The Angels had determined that the killer has a scar on his knees and he surfs) where they also meet former Angel Madison Lee (Demi Moore).
Meeting Lee, Alex wonders who among the Angels would be the first to leave. Alex believes that Natalie will soon marry her boyfriend Pete, and they would have to break in a new Angel. The girls track Emmers to the Coal Bowl.
During the Coal Bowl motorcycle race, Emmers targets another witness named Max Petroni (Shia LaBeouf), and the Angels try to intervene. Emmers is killed by the Thin Man (Crispin Glover) (believed to be dead after the events of the first film). Inside Emmers' pocket, the Angels discover the photos of Caulfield, Max, and, surprisingly, Dylan, under her birth name, Helen Zaas. Dylan reveals that she is a protected witness after sending her former boyfriend, Irish mob leader Seamus O'Grady (Justin Theroux) to prison. O'Grady has since targeted those who wronged him; including Dylan and Max, whose parents O'Grady killed.
As Max previously testified against O'Grady, he is sent to the home of Bosley's mother for protection. Thin Man is their only lead left. At a monastery, the Angels learn about the Thin Man's past from the Mother Superior, who reveals his name, Anthony. The girls deduce that the Thin Man was protecting Max since they went to the same Orphanage. The girls track down Thin Man to San Pedro harbor.
Afterwards, the Angels track O'Grady's mob at San Pedro and manage to get the rings, but O'Grady threatens Dylan with the murder of everyone she loves.
Natalie attends her boyfriend, Pete Kominsky's (Luke Wilson) high school reunion at Hermosa Beach, where she overhears his friends implying he might propose, which she feels is too fast since they just moved in together. Alex returns home to her actor boyfriend, Jason (Matt LeBlanc) while Dylan leaves the Angels and heads to Mexico. Jason had run into Alex's father and told him about Alex's true profession. But the way Jason explained it, it seemed like Alex is a porn movie star or a prostitute.
When Natalie, Bosley, and Alex notice the letter she left for them, they realize that Dylan fled to protect them.
Natalie asks Charlie (John Forsythe) how O'Grady got out of jail, and Charlie reveals someone had him released on good behavior. While hiding out in Mexico, Dylan is convinced to return after seeing an apparition of former Angel Kelly Garrett. Natalie and Alex deduce that Carter is the one who let O'Grady out of prison after seeing him return Bosley's keys without any pain, despite claiming to have broken his ribs beforehand. Following him, the two witness him getting killed by Madison, the true mastermind. Madison says that with the rings she could go into business for herself, instead of taking orders from a box. Though Dylan arrives to back the group, the Angels are shot by Madison, who takes the rings, though they survived via Kevlar vests worn under their clothes.
Back at the base, Charlie reprimands Madison for what she's done and confronts her for endangering her former teammates' lives. Madison is angry she never got the recognition she deserved from Charlie and shoots his speaker.
The Angels realize that Madison is going to sell the rings to the O'Grady Crime Family, the Antonioni Mafia, the Tanaka Yakuza, and the Diablo Cartel at the Hollywood Walk of Fame, where Jason's film premiere is about to commence. The Angels arrange for the buyers to be arrested by the FBI while they confront Madison and O'Grady. The O'Grady's enter the melee, having avoided arrest when Seamus realized the Angels' plan.
The Thin Man comes to the Angels' aid, helping Alex and rescuing Dylan when she is being attacked by O'Grady - he begins to fight O'Grady and kicks him off the roof. The Thin Man grabs Dylan and chokes her at first, but they ended up sharing a kiss and he pulls some of Dylan's hair out. Just as he is about to say something, O'Grady stabs him, and he falls off the roof. O'Grady nearly succeeds in killing Dylan as well, but she blinds him, causing him to lose his footing and fall to his death (in the unrated cut, O'Grady is still alive and attempts to get back up but is stopped by The Thin Man, who also survived; Dylan accidentally knocks over the "E" sign and it falls on O'Grady, possibly The Thin Man as well).
The Angels fight Madison all the way to an abandoned theatre, where they kick her into a chamber filled with gas and she fires her gun, inadvertently blowing herself up. The Angels attend the premiere, where they learn that Mama Bosley is adopting Max. Peter surprises Natalie by asking her to get a puppy (the big question he was planning on asking her) and Alex terminates her "time out" with Jason. The Angels celebrate their victory together with Bosley.