movieId: 3977
title: Charlie's Angels
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0160127/
ratingValue: 
directors: McG
actors: Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, Lucy Liu, Bill Murray, Sam Rockwell, Kelly Lynch, Tim Curry, Crispin Glover, Matt LeBlanc, LL Cool J

synopsis:
Natalie Cook (Cameron Diaz), Dylan Sanders (Drew Barrymore), and Alex Munday (Lucy Liu) are the "Angels," three talented, tough, attractive women who work as private investigators for an unseen millionaire named Charles "Charlie" Townsend (John Forsythe) the owner of the Townsend agency. The Angels had recently thwarted a terrorist's Pasqual (Sean Whalen) attempt to blow off a commercial airplane mid-air, when Dylan apprehended the terrorist and jumped out of the plane with him. Alex was waiting in an airborne helicopter and jumps after Dylan and the terrorist. Together, they remove the bomb, which explodes harmlessly, and Alex proceeds to save the terrorist who was falling with a parachute. Natalie retrieves all 3 of them in a boat waiting in the middle of the ocean. Natalie was a clumsy nerd with ugly braces (and grew up into a beautiful woman who appeared on TV game shows as participant), Alex was a prim and proper girl who rode horses in show-pony competitions (and grew up to be an astronaut) and Dylan was a gangster, who was into drug use and frequently got into fights (and grew up to join the military and punched her drill instructor). The women are smart, brilliant, multi-talented and dangerous. Dylan is having an affair with Chad, who is a fisherman with a boar named Betsy. Dylan often wakes up on his boat after sex. Alex is dating Jason Gibbons (Matt LeBlanc).
Charlie uses a speaker in his offices to communicate with the Angels, and his assistant Bosley (Bill Murray) works with them directly when needed. The Angels are assigned to find Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell), a software genius who created a revolutionary voice-recognition system and heads his own company, Knox Enterprises. Knox is believed to have been kidnapped by Roger Corwin (Tim Curry), who runs a communications-satellite company called Redstar. Charlie suspects that Roger has also stolen Knox's voice identification software. Charlie was hired by Vivian Woods, VP of Knox Enterprises to find Knox. 6 months ago, Corwin tried to buy out Knox, but he refused. The Angels infiltrate a spa where Corwin gets his weekly massage and from his locker they get access to his palm pilot, which gives his entire schedule. The Angels believe that Corwin has somebody else doing the kidnapping for him and notice a Thin Man in the CCTV footage of the kidnapping.
For communications, all 4 including Bosley install a micro-communication device disguised as a tooth, that fits inside the jaw on the back molar like a cap. The Angels infiltrate a party held by Corwin and spot a thin man (Crispin Glover) who was seen on the surveillance videos during Knox's kidnapping. Natalie has a crush on Pete Kominsky (Luke Wilson) who is a bartender at the party and Natalie was disguised as a waitress.
They chase and fight the Thin Man, who is an expert warrior with swords. Thin Man has a fetish for hair. He quickly finds that he is outclassed between the 3 Angels and decides to escape. When they follow him into an abandoned warehouse, they discover Knox, safely tied up nearby. After the Angels reunite Knox with his business partner Vivian Wood (Kelly Lynch), Charlie explains that they must determine whether the Thin Man or Corwin have stolen Knox's voice-recognition software. Charlie believes that Corwin wants to use Knox's software with his extensive satellite network to convert every cellphone on the planet into a homing device (as the voice ID of every individual is unique). The Angels infiltrate Redstar headquarters, fool the security system, and plant a device in the central computer that will enable them to explore it remotely. They retire for the night after giving Bosley the laptop computer that communicates with the Redstar computer. Dylan takes up Knox's offer to spend the night with him, but he betrays her later that night, explaining that he faked the kidnapping with help from Vivian and the Thin Man. Simultaneously, attacks are made on Natalie and Alex, Bosley is captured by Vivian, and Corwin is murdered by the Thin Man.
Knox has kidnapped Bosley, and, with access to Redstar's central computer, he intends to use his voice software with the Redstar satellite network to find and kill Charlie, who he believes killed his father in the Vietnam War. Knox shoots at Dylan, apparently killing her, but she escapes unharmed. Natalie and Alex are also attacked, and Corwin is murdered by the thin man. When the Angels regroup, Charlie's offices are blown up, but a radio receiver survives in the rubble, and Bosley speaks to them using a radio transmitter implanted in his teeth.
Bosley provides enough information of where he is being held captive to allow Natalie to deduce his location, an abandoned lighthouse. With help from Dylan's friend Chad (Tom Green), the Angels stealthily approach by boat. Upon finding Knox, Dylan is captured by his henchmen, tied up and gagged. The Angels are too late to stop Knox from determining Charlie's location, though they rescue Bosley while Dylan fights off her captors. They come together to defeat Vivian, the Thin Man, and other assorted henchmen, but Knox blows up the lighthouse and flies off in an attack helicopter towards Charlie's house. Bosley helps the Angels board it, where Alex reprograms the missile to have it shoot backwards, blowing up the helicopter and killing Knox while the Angels land safely. Seeing the opportunity to finally meet Charlie in person, the Angels enter the nearby beach house that Knox had targeted, but he has already left. He remotely congratulates them on a job well done through another speaker and treats them and Bosley to a vacation. Charlie also tells them that Knox's father was an undercover double agent; he was discovered and killed by the enemy, but not by him. When he speaks to the Angels by telephone on the beach, they ask if they could ever meet him in person. Dylan suspects she sees him nearby talking into a cell phone, but does not tell the group, opting to raise a toast to Charlie instead. Bosley playfully douses the Angels with his drink, and they chase him towards the ocean. From afar, a silhouetted Charlie watches them and walks off.