movieId: 1252
title: Chinatown
year: 1974
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0071315/
ratingValue: 
directors: Roman Polanski
actors: Jack Nicholson, Faye Dunaway, John Huston, Perry Lopez, John Hillerman, Darrell Zwerling, Diane Ladd, Roy Jenson, Roman Polanski, Richard Bakalyan

synopsis:
A woman identifying herself as Evelyn Mulwray hires private investigator J. J. "Jake" Gittes (Jack Nicholson) to spy on her husband, Hollis Mulwray (Darrell Zwerling), chief engineer for the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power. Gittes tails him, hears him publicly oppose the creation of a new reservoir, and shoots photographs of him with a young woman, which are published on the front page of the following day's paper. Back at his office, Gittes is confronted by a woman who informs him she is the real Evelyn Mulwray (Faye Dunaway), and that he can expect a lawsuit. Realizing he was set up, Gittes assumes that Mulwray's husband is the real target. Before he can question him, Lieutenant Lou Escobar (Perry Lopez) fishes Mulwray, drowned, from a freshwater reservoir. Under retainer to Mrs. Mulwray, Gittes investigates his suspicions of murder and notices that, although huge quantities of water are released from the reservoir every night, the farming land is almost dry. Gittes is warned off by Water Department Security Chief Claude Mulvihill (Roy Jenson) and a henchman, who slashes Gittes's nose. Back at his office, Gittes receives a call from Ida Sessions (Diane Ladd), who identifies herself as the Imposter Mrs. Mulwray. She is afraid to identify her employer, but tells Gittes to check the day's obituaries. Gittes learns that Mulwray was once the business partner of his wife's wealthy father, Noah Cross (John Huston). Noah and Mulray together owned the entire city's water supply back in 1925, but Mulray felt that the public should own the water and hence the company was nationalized. Gittes meets the new chief of the Water department and accuses him of wasting the city's water supply in the middle of a drought and murdering Mulray, so that he himself could become chief. Gittes threatens to go to the press with the story. The new chief admits that water is being released daily for the orange farmers of the Northwest Valley, but wont tell Gittes exactly which part of the valley is profiting from the largess as the valley as no legal right over LA's water supply. Evelyn is shaken when Gittes tells her that he knows Mulray was in business with Noah. She tells Gittes that she married Mulray after they ended their partnership (which intrigues Gittes that Evelyn would marry Noah's ex-partner after they had a falling out over business)
Over lunch at his personal club, Cross warns Gittes that he does not understand the forces at work, and offers to double Gittes's fee to search for Mulwray's missing mistress. At the hall of records, Gittes discovers that much of the Northwest Valley has recently changed ownership. Investigating the valley, he is attacked by angry landowners, who believe he is an agent of the water department attempting to force them out by sabotaging their water supply. Gittes deduces that the new proposed dam that Mulray opposed was not for LA, but for irrigating Nortwest Valley and that most the valley has recently changed hands. Gittes deduces that the water department is drying up select areas of the Northwest Valley land so it can be bought at a reduced price, and that Mulwray was murdered when he discovered the plan. He discovers that a former retirement home resident is one of the valley's new landowners, and seemingly purchased the property a week after his death. Gittes and Evelyn bluff their way into the home and confirm that the real estate deals were surreptitiously completed in the names of several of the home's residents. Their visit is interrupted by the suspicious retirement home director, who has called Mulvihill. After fleeing Mulvihill and his thugs, Gittes and Evelyn hide at Evelyn's house and sleep together. Early in the morning, Evelyn gets a phone call and has to leave suddenly; she warns Gittes that her father is dangerous. Gittes follows her car to a house, where he spies her through the windows comforting Mulwray's mistress. He accuses Evelyn of holding the woman against her will, but she confesses that the woman is her sister.
The next day, an anonymous call draws Gittes to Ida Sessions's apartment; he finds her murdered and Escobar waiting for his arrival. Escobar tells him the coroner's report found salt water in Mulwray's lungs, indicating that he did not drown in the freshwater reservoir where his body was found. Escobar suspects Evelyn of the murder and tells Gittes to produce her quickly. At Evelyn's mansion, Gittes finds her servants packing her things. He realizes her garden pond is salt water and discovers a pair of bifocals in it. He confronts Evelyn about her "sister", whom Evelyn now claims is her daughter. After Gittes slaps her, she admits that the woman, Katherine (Belinda Palmer), is her sister and her daughter: her father raped her when she was fifteen. She says that the eyeglasses are not Mulwray's, as he did not wear bifocals. Gittes arranges for the women to flee to Mexico and instructs Evelyn to meet him at her butler's home in Chinatown. He summons Cross to the Mulwray home to settle their deal. Cross admits his intention to annex the Northwest Valley into the City of Los Angeles, then irrigate and develop it. Gittes accuses Cross of murdering Mulwray in Evelyn's salt water pond and then dropping his bifocals there in the scuffle. Cross takes the bifocals at gunpoint, and he and Mulvihill force Gittes to drive them to the women. When they reach the Chinatown address, the police are already there and detain Gittes. When Cross approaches Katherine, Evelyn shoots him in the arm and drives away with Katherine. The police open fire, killing Evelyn.
Cross clutches Katherine and leads her away, while Escobar orders Gittes released. Lawrence Walsh, one of Gittes's associates, tells him: "Forget it, Jake. It's Chinatown."