movieId: 1022
title: Cinderella
year: 1950
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0042332/
ratingValue: 
directors: Clyde Geronimi, Wilfred Jackson, Hamilton Luske
actors: Ilene Woods, Eleanor Audley, Verna Felton, Claire Du Brey, Rhoda Williams, James MacDonald, Helene Stanley, Luis Van Rooten, Don Barclay

synopsis:
A Kingdom in a faraway land, was peaceful and prosperous and rich in romance and tradition. A wealthy widower has a daughter named Cinderella (Ilene Woods). He was a kid and devoted father who gave his child all the luxury and comfort that money could buy. He felt that Cinderella needed the care of a mother. He remarries to a woman Lady Tremaine (Eleanor Audley) who has two daughters of her own, Anastasia (Lucille Bliss) and Drizella (Rhoda Williams), thinking she will love Cinderella as a mother. But her father dies & the stepmother is revealed to be cold, cruel and jealous of Cinderella's grace & beauty. Lady Tremaine orders Cinderella to become a scullion in her own chateau, overburdening her with chores.
The chateau fell in disrepair as the family fortune was squandered on the vain and selfish step-sisters. Cinderella was abused, humiliated, and was made to live at the top of the tower, where it was cold and wet. Despite this, Cinderella remains kind of heart, obediently doing her chores while taking care of the mice and birds that live in the chateau, making friends of them, mainly of two mice named Jaq and Gus (James MacDonald). She also protects them from being eaten by her stepmother's cat Lucifer (June Foray), who makes her duties even harder in retaliation.
Cinderella still dreams of a better life and hasn't given up hope. The birds and the mice wake Cinderella up every morning and help her get ready for another day of facing her step-mother and step-sisters. Her day starts with waking Lucifer, Lady Tremaine's cat and feeding it an early breakfast. Lucifer knows that he belongs to Lady Tremaine and cannot be touched, but he fears the house Doberman Bruno, who used to be Cinderella's father's loyal pet. Lucifer hates Bruno and gets him into trouble by harassing Bruno and then playing the victim when he tries to retaliate. As such, Bruno is mostly banished out of the house. Cinderella then serves breakfast to the farm animals in the barn. The mice also try to get to the barn, but their path is blocked by Lucifer. Jaq distracts Lucifer so the other mice can make it outside and collect corn. As they are coming back, Lucifer notices Gus and goes after him. Jaq tries a lot to distract Lucifer, but Lucifer corners Gus in a teacup and is almost about to kill him when Gus is saved by the bell from the step-sisters summoning Cinderella. Cinderella's stepsisters, Anastasia and Drizella, also take advantage of her meekness, mocking her and adding to her workload. They are served their morning tea in bed, and they heap on their mending and ironing on Cinderella. By mistake Cinderella serves the teacup to Drizella with Gus inside and she creates a racket. Lady Tremaine punishes Cinderella by asking her to clean the large carpet in the living room and all the windows of the mansion, along with tapestries and draperies, garden, terrace, sweep the halls and stairs, and clean the chimney. The King (Luis Van Rooten) is old & wants to see grand-kids before he dies. But the Prince (William Edward Phipps) doesn't like anyone. So, the King organizes a ball & invites all eligible maidens in his Kingdom, so that the prince will choose one as his wife. Cinderella has a beautiful voice, while at the same time Anastasia and Drizella have terrible singing voices.
Cinderella too gets the invitation, but stepmom says she can go if she completes housework & finds something to wear. Wanting to attend, Cinderella finds a dress of her late birth mother to fix up. Cinderella had selected a design in which wanted her dress.
Fearing she will upstage them at the ball, Lady Tremaine and the stepsisters deliberately keep her busy with no time to spare. The mice decide to sew her a dress. They use her mother's wedding gown & modify it using trimmings from Drizella & Anastasia's discarded sash and some old beads. Cinderella is delighted & thanks the mice. But at 8 PM when she arrives to get into the carriage, Drizella & Anastasia rip her dress apart while getting their trimmings & beads back. A distraught Cinderella runs out to the garden in tears, kneeling on a stone bench. There, she is met by her Fairy Godmother (Verna Felton) an endearing but slightly addled matron, who has come to help. She transforms Jaq, Gus, and two other mice into four white horses, a pumpkin into a coach, Cinderella's old horse Major into a coachman, and her bloodhound Bruno (James MacDonald) into a footman. The fairy godmother also gives Cinderella a shimmering ball gown and glass slippers but warns her that all the magic will end on the stroke of midnight. Cinderella says she understands and thanks the fairy Godmother as this is more than what she ever dreamed of. Cinderella arrives at the ball, and is not recognized by her stepsisters, though her stepmother believes something is familiar about her. The Prince has eyes for no one but her, so the King orders the Grand Duke to make sure the romance goes without a hitch. They fall in love. The duke prevents anyone from interfering as Cinderella and the Prince dance a waltz and wander out to the palace grounds, falling deeper in love. However, when Cinderella hears the clock tolling midnight, she runs away before she and the Prince can exchange names. Despite the efforts of the Grand Duke, Cinderella flees the palace, losing one of her slippers on the staircase. The palace guards pursue, but when the magic ends on the stroke of 12, Cinderella and the animals revert to their former appearances on the path in the forest and hide in the woods as the Grand Duke's soldiers ride by looking for the woman. Cinderella discovers the other glass slipper is still on her foot and takes it home with her. Cinderella is thankful to the Fairy Godmother for the best evening of her life. The King is livid when he finds that the girl that the prince was dancing with got away. He believes that the Grand Duke was in cahoots with the prince all along and it was their plan so that the prince never had to marry.
The Prince declares that he will marry the one who fits the slipper. The King assigns The Grand Duke (Luis Van Rooten) on the mission to find the girl.
Hearing Cinderella humming the waltz from the ball, Lady Tremaine realizes the truth and locks Cinderella in her attic bedroom. Eventually the Grand Duke reaches the residence of Cinderella. While the stepsisters unsuccessfully try on the slipper, Jaq and Gus steal the key back from Lady Tremaine. As they take the key to Cinderella, Lucifer attempts to stop them by trapping Gus and battling the other mice. The birds summon Bruno who scares Lucifer out of the house, and a freed Cinderella hurries to meet the Grand Duke. The Grand Duke is about to leave as Cinderella finally appears. He orders the messenger to bring forth the glass slipper, yet the stepmother in a last-minute attempt to prevent her stepdaughter from better things, causes the messenger to trip, thus breaking the fragile shoe into pieces. Yet the arrogant woman hadn't bet on Cinderella producing the other glass slipper, which fits onto Cinderella's foot perfectly. Very soon, wedding bells ring, and Cinderella marries her prince, and they live happily ever after.