movieId: 5264
title: Clockstoppers
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0250305/
ratingValue: 
directors: 
actors: Jesse Bradford, French Stewart, Paula Garcés, Michael Biehn, Robin Thomas, Garikayi Mutambirwa, Julia Sweeney, Lindze Letherman, Jason George, Linda Kim, Ken Jenkins, Esperanza Catubig, Jennifer Manley

synopsis:
The NSA-funded QT (Quantum Tech) Corporation has slated a project to develop Hypertime, a technology which allows the user's molecules to speed up to the point where the world appears to be standing still. After realizing that such technology, contained within a wristwatch frame, could also be used against the USA, the NSA orders the project stopped. NSA head Moore (Ken Jenkins) ends the project due to the risk of the technology being acquired by hostile powers. However, the research is farther along than the NSA expected and QT's leader Henry Gates (Michael Biehn) plans on using the technology to usurp the leader of the NSA and dominate the world.
The NSA has given him only a weekend before they collect his equipment, his lead scientist Earl Dopler cannot fix a glitch which causes subjects in Hypertime to age rapidly. Gates uses the prototype to stretch the weekend in order to give the brilliant lead scientist Earl Dopler (French Stewart) time to fix the remaining glitch in the technology after his henchmen Richard (Jason Winston George) and Jay (Linda Kim) prevent Earl's incognito departure at the airport. However, the disadvantage of Earl being in Hypertime for too long was him aging rapidly in real time, as his molecular age continued at the same rate despite time slowing down. Initially unknown to Gates, Dopler had sent a prototype to his former teacher named Dr. George Gibbs (Robin Thomas). Gibbs' daughter Kelly (Lindze Letherman) accidentally knocks the watch into a box of his son Zak's things. George is away at a convention on applied science, having turned down Zak's appeals to go car shopping with him. Zak repeatedly bombs out with Francesca, the hot new girl at school, first with a condescending offer to show her around and then, after she allows him to help her rake leaves, by bringing a live opossum into her house. Gibbs' son Zak (Jesse Bradford) discovers the watch accidentally and initially uses it for fun, much to the amusement of Francesca (Paula Garces). Francesca is impressed when he shows her the power of the watch, which they use to pull pranks around town, and later help Zak's friend Meeker (Garikayi Mutambirwa) wins a battle of the DJs contest. At the end of the date, Francesca gives Zak a goodnight kiss. Once Gates finds out about the leaked prototype, he attempts to retrieve it. He sends his henchmen after Zak who break into his house and search for evidence. Upon learning about the ulterior motive of QT Corporation, Zak sets out to warn his father of the danger he could be in. While fleeing from them, Zak discovers Dopler tied up in their van and frees him. A chase ensues, with Zak crashing the van into a river, thus disabling the watch. He wakes up in hospital with a broken watch and only by a stroke of luck manages to avoid Jay and Richard again. He then goes in search of somewhere safe to hide in the meantime after he had been accused to stealing a van by the police. He gets the watch working just long enough to steal a policeman's uniform, allowing him to evade both the police and Gates's henchmen. In a bid to retrieve the watch, QT Corporation enlists the help of national security agencies and portray Zak and his father as fugitives wanted by the law. Zak goes on the run with his girlfriend, locating the hotel that Dr. Gibbs was staying at in a bid to warn him. Dopler is also looking for Dr. Gibbs to ask for help and also to warn him. However, Gates, Jay, and Richard reach Zak's father before him and kidnaps Dr. Gibbs from his hotel room. Unable to reach his father in time, Zak and Francesca wander the streets aimlessly before being forcibly picked up by Earl Dopler, who wants the watch back. Francesca knocks Dopler out, and she and Zak interrogate Dopler. The teens take Dopler hostage and force him to do as they request. As Dopler feels that Dr. Gibbs has been kind to him, he agrees reluctantly to helping save Dr. Gibbs. Using components that the three of them steal from the science convention, Dopler mends the broken watch and builds their own set of nitrogen guns. Nitrogen guns can take someone out of Hypertime and back into normal time. The guns are loaded with paint-balls filled with frozen nitrogen, and the low temperature 'freezes' a hit person back into normal time. Dopler helps the kids break in but decides not to go as well. They get caught by Henry Gates, Richard, and Jay. Zak and Francesca are thrown in a cell with Zak's dad. Zak accelerates while in Hypertime and becomes "light" (Einstein's theory is seemingly correct, anything faster than "light", becomes "light"). They then manage to break out as the NSA Agents arrive. The NSA deadline expires, so Gates puts the whole facility into Hypertime to stop the approaching NSA agents. Using his concealed watch while in Hypertime causes Zak's particles to accelerate to the point of instability, allowing him to pass through the walls of their cell and divert Gates and his henchmen long enough for George to rig a bomb which destroys the machine generating Hypertime. Gates is not defeated and knocks Francesca out of hyper-time and prepares to do the same to Zak and his dad. Suddenly he's shot with a paintball by Dopler who returned to help and Dopler shoots Gates until he reverts to normal time, defeating him. The NSA agents take the watches to keep them safe, and arrest Gates and his henchmen. The charges against Zak are dropped. Following the arrest of Gates, Jay, and Richard. Dopler uses the machine he was building to reverse the aging effects of hyper-time that happened to him, but it inadvertently changes him back into a teenager (Miko Hughes), meaning he will have to live with the Gibbs for a few years. The movie ends with Zak and his family happily together, and with Zak finally getting the car he wanted. As Zak speeds off in his car with his girlfriend, sister and teenage Dopler, it is revealed that he has not returned the watch after all, as he goes into Hypertime to have some fun.