movieId: 8798
title: Collateral
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0369339/
ratingValue: 
directors: Michael Mann
actors: Tom Cruise, Jamie Foxx, Jada Pinkett Smith, Mark Ruffalo, Peter Berg, Bruce McGill, Irma P. Hall, Barry Shabaka Henley, Richard T. Jones, Klea Scott

synopsis:
Vincent arrives in LA and is handed a package at the airport by a courier (Jason Statham). Max Durocher (Jamie Foxx) is a Los Angeles cab driver trying to earn enough to start his own limousine business. LA has 17 million people and is the 5th largest economy in the world all by itself. Yet, the city is too spread out and too disconnected and nobody knows each other. One night, Max drives U.S. Justice Department prosecutor Annie Farrell (Jada Pinkett Smith) to her office where she prepares for a drug indictment case. Annie is talking on the phone to her colleague and Max understands that she is working on a big case and is going to work all night to prepare the paperwork to file in court the following day. Annie wanted Max to take a specific route, but Max suggests a different one suggesting it would be faster. They make a bet and turns out Max was right.
Annie takes a liking to Max, leaving him her business card. Vincent (Tom Cruise) enters the cab next, giving Max $600 (as Max makes $400 in a regular shift and Vincent adds another $100 if he gets to LAX on time) for chauffeuring him to five appointments. Vincent tells Max that he is in Los Angeles for one night to complete a real estate deal and has a 6 AM flight out of LAX, and Max agrees.
Max talks about how he hates LA and that one time a dead man's corpse rode the subway for 6 hours before anyone noticed it. As Max waits at the first stop, Vincent enters an apartment complex and shoots drug dealer Ramone Ayala (Thomas Rosales, Jr.). Ayala unexpectedly falls out of the window directly onto the cab, forcing Vincent to reveal himself as a hit-man. He coerces Max to hide the body in the trunk, clean up the car and continue with their arrangement. LAPD detective Ray Fanning arrives where Vincent made the kill and reveals the victim was a police informant. However, Max is pulled over by police due to damage from Ayala's impact, but just before the officers can investigate, they are summoned to a higher priority call. Vincent then leaves Max tied to the steering wheel in an alley as he murders attorney Sylvester Clarke. Max calls for help from a group passing by, who proceed to rob him and Vincent's briefcase, but Vincent returns and kills them. Fanning arrives at the hospital morgue to see the bodies of criminal lawyer Sylvester Clark, Vincent's second target, and the two dead robbers, and realizes that this is the work of a hit-man. Vincent then brings Max to a jazz club to drink with club owner Daniel Baker (Barry Shabaka Henley) after it closes. Daniel is set to testify against Vincent's client.
Max pleads with Vincent to let Daniel go, and Vincent bets that Daniel cannot answer a question about Miles Davis. Daniel seemingly gives a correct answer, but Vincent unexpectedly shoots Daniel in the head, dissatisfied with his answer. Max has a panic attack. Learning of Max's nightly visits to the hospital to see his mother, Vincent then insists Max visit his mother Ida (Irma P. Hall) in the hospital to avoid breaking routine. He pretends to be Max's colleague and develops a rapport with Ida. At the hospital, Ida proudly tells Vincent that Max has his own limousine company, revealing Max has been lying to her for her approval.
This upsets Max, who then runs out with the briefcase and tosses it off a bridge onto the freeway. With his target list destroyed, Vincent forces Max to meet drug lord Felix Reyes-Torrena (Javier Bardem), threatening to murder Max's mother otherwise. Posing as Vincent, Max meets with Felix and successfully acquires a USB flash drive listing the last two targets. Felix orders his men to follow Max and eliminate him should he fail. Plugging the flash drive into the cab's computer Vincent and Max acquire the details of the next target, Korean gangster Peter Lim, who is at a nightclub. Meanwhile, LAPD Detective Ray Fanning (Mark Ruffalo) uncovers the connection between the three victims and reports his finding to FBI Special Agent Frank Pedrosa (Bruce McGill), who identifies the targets as witnesses for the pending indictment case against Felix. Pedrosa thinks that Max is the hit-man, based on FBI surveillance of Max entering and leaving Reyes-Torrena's bar, and orders the FBI agents to protect Lim. Pedrosa assembles a force to secure witness Lim and converges on the crowded nightclub simultaneously with Vincent, who in turn is being followed by Felix's men. Vincent manages to execute all of Lim's guards, Felix's hit-men and Lim himself, before slipping out of the club amid the chaos. Fanning rescues Max and smuggles him outside, but is killed by Vincent, who beckons Max back into the cab. Following their getaway, the two get into an argument over their lives in which Max openly views Vincent as a psychopath and Vincent accuses Max of being too passive with his life. Max finally snaps, speeds through the empty streets and deliberately crashes the cab. Vincent takes off on foot before a police officer arrives at the wreck and notices the corpse in the trunk.
Max spots Annie's profile on the Vincent's open laptop and realizes she is Vincent's final target. He overpowers the officer and takes Vincent's gun before running to Annie's building and her office. He tries to phone her as the signal cuts off but manages to get into her office and save her by shooting Vincent, allowing them to escape. Max and Annie board a metro rail train with Vincent in pursuit. Boxed in and left with no other option, Max makes his last stand. Firing blindly as the train lights dim and flicker, Max mortally wounds Vincent in a shootout while emerging unscathed. Vincent slumps into a seat and dies as he repeats an anecdote heard earlier about a man who died on a train and went unnoticed for six hours. Max and Annie then get off at the next station, in the dawn of a new day.