movieId: 5093
title: Collateral Damage
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0233469/
ratingValue: 
directors: Andrew Davis
actors: Arnold Schwarzenegger, Francesca Neri, Elias Koteas, Cliff Curtis, John Leguizamo, John Turturro, Jsu Garcia, Tyler Posey, Michael Milhoan, Rick Worthy

synopsis:
Gordy is a firefighter along with colleagues Jack (Michael Milhoan), Ronnie (Rick Worthy) and Junior (Raymond Cruz). A bomb is detonated in the plaza of the Colombian Consulate building in Los Angeles, killing 9 people including a caravan of Colombian officials and American intelligence agents. The bomb was placed in a cop's bike which was placed at the Plaza just before the caravan of officials drove up the to consulate in 3 different cars. Among the civilians killed are the wife and son of LAFD firefighter, Gordy Brewer (Arnold Schwarzenegger), who was injured in the explosion as he arrived to pick up his family including his wife Anne (Lindsay Frost) and son Matt (Ethan Dampf).
Anne had taken Matt for a doctor's appointment and was waiting for Gordy just outside the Columbian Consulate building. Soon afterward, a tape is sent to the U.S. State Department, in which a masked man calling himself "El Lobo" (The Wolf) claims responsibility for the bombing, explaining it was in retaliation for America's oppression of Colombia. El Lobo is responsible for at least 7 bombings and in the tape, the face of El Lobo was not visible, and the voice print was digitally altered. Lobo promised to bring the war to America with more such attacks in the future.
FBI Agent Dray (Harry Lennix) and FBI Special Agent Joe Phipps (Miguel Sandoval) are in charge of the investigation. The media dubs the death of Anne and Matt as Collateral Damage. The FBI believes El Lobo is a Colombian terrorist named Claudio Perrini (Cliff Curtis). CIA Special Agent Peter Brandt (Elias Koteas), the Colombia Station Chief, is harshly reprimanded for the incident by a Senate Oversight Committee led by Chairman Paul Devereaux (Michael Cavanaugh), who promptly terminate all CIA operations in Colombia. Paul says that it was Brandt's idea to wage against Columbian guerrillas and this brought the attack on US soil in retaliation. Paul says that peace negotiations with the guerrillas have been started by the State Department, but Brandt is adamant that the guerrillas do not want peace, they only want to sell drugs.
Brandt angrily returns to Mompos and meets with his paramilitary allies to plan a major offensive to take down Claudio and his guerrilla forces. Brewer calls Brandt and finds that the US Govt is talking peace with Lobo and his guerrilla forces. Brandt says that justice for Brewer's family is not a priority for the US Government. Through his colleagues, Brewer meets Ed Coonts (J. Kenneth Campbell), the former military advisor of Colombia who gives Brewer advice to survive Colombia. Frustrated at the political red tape regarding the investigation, Brewer also travels to Mompos to personally hunt down Claudio but is quickly arrested for illegally entering the country via Panama (as one could not enter Columbia legally without a State Department stamp). Kidnapping Americans is the biggest revenue earner in Columbia. The guerrillas stage a prison break to free their fellow members as well as try and abduct Brewer to demand a large ransom for him. Brandt's unit is alerted to Brewer's presence in Colombia but arrive too late to prevent the prison break. Brewer escapes the prison, avoids being captured, and secures a guerrilla zone pass from Canadian mechanic Sean Armstrong (John Turturro) who reveals information into setting him up with drug runner, Felix Ramirez (John Leguizamo), the manager of the cocaine distribution facility that finances the guerrillas. Pretending to be a mechanic hired to fix a generator, Brewer rigs several improvised explosives and destroys the facility. Felix is blamed for the destruction of the drug plant and is executed in front of a hiding Gordy's eyes. Brewer then infiltrates Claudio's headquarters and plants a bomb to kill him but is captured when he tries to prevent a woman, later revealed to be Claudio's wife Selena (Francesca Neri), from being caught in the blast radius. At Claudio's home compound, Selena, who also lost a child in a bombing, empathizes with Brewer's motives and admits that Claudio is planning another bombing in Washington, D.C. Meanwhile, Brandt's unit locates Claudio's compound and launches an attack. During the ensuing shootout, Selena helps free Brewer and, along with Brandt, travels back to the State Department in Washington, D.C. to help the search effort for Claudio. Selena identifies Union Station as the target, and the FBI go to investigate. On the pretense of using the lavatory, she excuses herself from the command room and becomes irritated when her adopted son Mauro refuses to come with her. Brewer recognizes Selena make the same gesture as the masked man claiming to be El Lobo made in the tape and realizes that she was "The Wolf" all along. Furthermore, Brewer surmises the real target is the State Department. Brewer quickly throws Mauro's toy dinosaur, with the bomb inside of it, out the window moments before it explodes. Selena then murders a federal agent, takes her duty piece and identification card. Brandt, realizing Brewer's suspicions, is shot and killed by Selena while trying to stop her from fleeing the building. Brewer chases Selena to the basement of the building where she and Claudio ride off through the underground tunnels on a motorcycle. Brewer finds the tunnel control console and shuts the gates, preventing their escape. Brewer chops open some gas lines along the walls of the tunnel and, as they ride back, Selena shoots at Brewer, igniting the gas. Brewer jumps through a doorway just as the entire tunnel explodes. Selena and Claudio survive the blast, however, and attack him simultaneously. After a short, hand to hand fight, Selena is electrocuted by being tossed on the exposed circuitry of the control panel, and Claudio is killed when Brewer throws an ax in his chest before he can detonate a second bomb in the State Department. Brewer then carries Mauro in his arms as they leave the State Department. In the aftermath, Brewer carries Mauro in his arms as they leave the State Department. A newscast voiceover explains that Brewer will receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom for preventing one of the worst terrorist attacks in U.S. history from taking place.