movieId: 3758
title: Communion
year: 1989
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0097100/
ratingValue: 
directors: Philippe Mora
actors: Christopher Walken, Lindsay Crouse, Frances Sternhagen, Andreas Katsulas, Terri Hanauer, Joel Carlson, John Dennis Johnston, DeeDee Rescher, Aileen Fitzpatrick, R.J. Miller

synopsis:
In 1985, New York-based author Whitley Strieber (Christopher Walken) resides with his wife (Lindsay Crouse) and their son (Joel Carlson) in Manhattan and seems to be successful. However, he is awaken by paranoid dreams that someone else is inside the room. On an excursion to the family cabin in the woods, the intruder alarm is triggered and Strieber sees a face watching him from the doorway. Bright lights filled the cabin windows and wakes his son and two other family friends, but his wife remains asleep. Disturbed by this, they all return to New York and life seemingly returns to normal, but Strieber finds that his work and personal life are becoming influenced by recurring nightmares and visions of strange alien beings including greys, blue doctors and bugs. This incident disturbs his son and puts a massive strain on his marriage. After an incident at their cabin in which Strieber is so convinced that there are alien beings inside the house that he pulls his gun and almost shoots his wife, worried that his son is beginning to have the same visions, he is eventually convinced to see a psychiatrist (Frances Sternhagen) specializing in hypnotic regression therapy. The therapy confirms that he has possibly been abducted by unknown beings and experiments have been performed on him; however, he remains skeptical about this and attends a group therapy session of fellow abductees, not wanting to take some action. Eventually, he realizes he has to confront his visions, real or not, and returns to the cabin where most of the incidents seem to occur. He interacts with the alien beings and realizes he has been into contact with them his whole life and this was passed on from his father and he will, one after the other, pass this onto his son. Making peace with his family, Strieber comes to accept the alien visitors as part of his life, and in the last scene, he remains seated into his office writing a book about his encounter with them and embraces the face of a grey alien.