movieId: 6835
title: Contamination
year: 1980
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0082000/
ratingValue: 
directors: Luigi Cozzi
actors: Ian McCulloch, Louise Marleau, Marino Masé, Siegfried Rauch, Gisela Hahn, Carlo De Mejo, Carlo Monni, Nat Bush, Ettore Martini, Angelo Ragusa

synopsis:
A large ship called "The Caribbean Lady" drifts into New York Harbor, seemingly abandoned. The ship is discovered to be carrying large containers of coffee, hidden inside of which are a series of football-sized green eggs. The crew, led by Dr. Turner and sarcastic NYPD Detective Tony Aris, are sent in to explore the ghost ship find the mutilated remains of the crew gathered in one place, and they soon discover the reason why: when disturbed, the green eggs explode, spraying a viscous liquid over everything. The liquid is toxic to living creatures, and causes the body to immediately explode. Turner picks up one of the eggs, only to be killed by its liquid. The rest of the crew is killed too. Only Aris survives. The military's answer to this phenomenon is Colonel Stella Holmes. She establishes a link between the green eggs and a recent mission to Mars that ended badly for the two astronauts who descended to the planet. One of them disappeared, and the other, Commander Hubbard, had a breakdown and subsequently became an alcoholic. Holmes has the ship deep freezed and the eggs carried over to her place of employment for examination. It is soon discovered that the eggs are actually bacteria pods that become deadly when exposed to extreme heat. Aris, along with Agent Young, subsequently raid the warehouse where the ship was supposed to deliver its cargo; the cargo being the deadly pods. To their horror, the men guarding the pods shoot one of the pods, getting gruesomely killed as a result, rather than turn themselves in to the authorities. After Col. Holmes meets Hubbard at his apartment, Hubbard agrees to help Holmes in her investigation of the insidious plot to bring the deadly eggs to Manhattan, and it takes them, along with Det. Aris, to a Colombian coffee plantation. All is not as it seems; Hubbard's former astronaut colleague is apparently alive and well and living under the influence of a monstrous alien cyclops, which is using mind control to further its plot to flood the world with the green pods and wipe out human life on Earth; the original plan was to place the pods into the sewers of Manhattan. The plantation merely serves as a front for this gruesome plan. Aris falls under the alien's mental influence and is devoured, but Hubbard saves Stella and kills the cyclops by shooting out its eye. Hamilton, only an imposter controlled by the alien, dies without the alien's power to sustain him; It is implied that the real Hamilton is still stranded in space. Government agents proceed to confiscate the remaining alien pods. However, a surviving, previously unseen pod explodes on a busy street corner.