movieId: 1584
title: Contact
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118884/
ratingValue: 
directors: Robert Zemeckis
actors: Jena Malone, David Morse, Jodie Foster, Geoffrey Blake, William Fichtner, SaMi Chester, Timothy McNeil, Laura Elena Surillo, Matthew McConaughey, Tom Skerritt

synopsis:
Dr. Ellie Arroway (Jodie Foster) works for the SETI program at the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico. Guided into science and communication -- starting with Amateur Radio -- by her now-deceased father Theodore (David Morse), she listens to radio emissions from space, hoping to find evidence of alien life. she works with her colleague Kent Clarke (William Fichtner), who is blind, but loves the fact that Ellie listens to actual radio signals as almost nobody does that anymore. fisher (Geoffrey Blake) is their research assistant. Ellie dates Christian philosopher Palmer Joss. She tells Palmer how she is an atheist and her inner most thoughts and fears. Palmer is a part-priest. He is writing a book on impact of technology on the poor people in third world countries. Ellie backs off when Palmer gets serious. Ellie is a logical person (she even blames her father's habit of keeping medicines in the downstairs bathroom for his death), and doesn't like people who talk of God and faith. David Drumlin (Tom Skerritt), the president's science advisor, pulls the funding from SETI, because he believes that the endeavor is futile. Arroway gains backing from Hadden Industries, run by secretive billionaire industrialist S. R. Hadden (John Hurt), which allows her to continue the project at the Very Large Array (VLA) in New Mexico. Four years later, around 1996, with Drumlin seeking to close the SETI program (while Ellie has the funding but the telescope itself is owned by the Govt and they can lease it to whoever they want), Arroway discovers a signal repeating a sequence of prime numbers, apparently sent from the star system Vega about 26 light-years away. This announcement causes Drumlin and the National Security Council led by Michael Kitz (James Woods) to attempt to take control of the facility. Ellie is distraught at her project being taken away from her but has no choice else she will be cut off completely. Arroway's team discovers a video hidden in the signal: Adolf Hitler's opening address at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, Germany. Arroway and her team postulate that this would have been the first signal strong enough to leave Earth's ionosphere, reach Vega, and be transmitted back. The project is put under tight security, and its progress followed worldwide. Arroway finds that the signal also contains more than 63,000 pages of indecipherable data. The reclusive S. R. Hadden secretly meets with Arroway to provide the means to decode the pages. The pages reveal schematics for a complex machine that is determined to be some kind of transport for a single occupant. The US Govt advised by Kit and Drumlin are not in support of building the machine, but Palmer enters the discussion (he is now the spiritual advisor to the white house administration) and steers the opinion towards building the machine. The schematics are released to the media by an unknown person, which builds public pressure to build the machine. The nations of the world fund the construction of the machine at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral. An international panel is assembled to choose a candidate to travel in the machine. Although Arroway is a front-runner to go, her hopes are dashed by Christian philosopher Palmer Joss (Matthew McConaughey), a panel member whom Arroway met and briefly became romantically involved with in Puerto Rico. When he brings attention to her atheism, the panel selects Drumlin, as more representative of humanity (95% of humanity believes in God). When the machine is first tested, a religious terrorist destroys the machine in a suicide bombing, killing Drumlin and several others. A cancer stricken Hadden, now in residence on the Mir space station (the low oxygen and zero gravity slows down the progress of cancer), reveals to Arroway that his company had secretly made a second machine in Japan and that Arroway will be the one to go. Palmer meets Ellie in Japan and says that he didn't vote for Ellie the last time as he didn't want to lose her. They reconcile. Outfitted with several recording devices, Arroway enters the machine's pod, which is then dropped into three rapidly spinning gimbals rings, causing the pod to apparently travel through a series of wormholes. Arroway sees a radio array-like structure at Vega and signs of an advanced civilization on another planet. She then finds herself on a beach, similar to a childhood picture she drew of Pensacola, Florida, and a figure approaches that becomes her deceased father. Arroway recognizes him as an alien taking her father's form and attempts to ask questions. The alien tells her that the familiar landscape and form were used to make their first contact easier for her and that this journey was just humanity's first step to joining other space-faring species. Arroway falls unconscious as she begins traveling back through a wormhole. She awakens to find herself on the floor of the pod, the mission control team repeatedly hailing her. She learns that, from outside the machine, it appears that the pod merely dropped through the machine's rings and landed in a safety net. Arroway insists that she was gone for approximately 18 hours, but her recording devices show only noise. A Congressional Committee is formed and speculates that the signal and machine were a hoax designed by the now-deceased Hadden. Ellie has no physical proof of this fantastic story. in an irony, Arroway asks the committee to accept the truth of her testimony on faith. She is almost spiritual in her passion for her "experience" inside the machine. In a private, online conversation, Kitz and White House official Rachel Constantine (Angela Bassett) reflect on confidential information that, although Arroway's recording device only recorded static, it recorded 18 hours of it. Arroway and Joss reunite, and Arroway receives ongoing financial support at the VLA.