movieId: 161
title: Crimson Tide
year: 1995
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0112740/
ratingValue: 
directors: Tony Scott
actors: Denzel Washington, Gene Hackman, Matt Craven, George Dzundza, Viggo Mortensen, James Gandolfini, Rocky Carroll, Jaime Gomez, Michael Milhoan, Scott Burkholder

synopsis:
In post-Soviet Russia, civil war erupts as a result of the ongoing conflict in Chechnya. Military units loyal to Vladimir Radchenko (Daniel Von Bargen), a Russian ultra-nationalist, take control of a nuclear missile installation and are threatening nuclear war if either the American or Russian government's attempt to confront him. Radchenko's forces have taken over a submarine base and launched 4 Akula class attack subs near the Chinese and Korean borders. The Russian Govt has assured US that Radchenko's forces currently do not possess the launch codes. A U.S. Navy Ohio-class ballistic missile submarine, USS Alabama, is assigned to a patrol mission to be available to launch its missiles in a preemptive strike if Radchenko attempts to fuel his missiles. Captain Frank Ramsey (Gene Hackman) is the commanding officer, one of few submarine commanders left in the Navy with combat experience. At this time, US sub commanders have the authority to launch nuclear attacks post authorization. They have effective control over the nukes. He chooses Lieutenant Commander Ron Hunter (Denzel Washington) as his new XO, who has an extensive education in military history and tactics, but no combat experience. Its Defcon 4.
Crew includes Lieutenant Bobby Dougherty (James Gandolfini), Supplies Officer (SUPPO). Tactical Supervising Officer Billy Linkletter (Scott Burkholder) (TSO). Lieutenant Darik Westerguard (Rocky Carroll), Operations Officer (OPS-O). Lieutenant Roy Zimmer, Communications Officer (Matt Craven) (COMMO). During their initial days at sea, tension between Ramsey and Hunter becomes apparent due to a clash of personalities: Hunter is more analytical and cautious, while Ramsey has a more impulsive and intuitive approach. Hunter thinks in a nuclear age the real enemy is war itself, a sentiment that doesn't sit well with Ramsey. Two incidents bear this out. Day 3, A fire breaks out in the galley, resulting in the death of the chief mess officer Rono (Mark Christopher Lawrence) via cardiac arrest. Hunter helps the mess crew fight the fire, but Ramsey chooses to order a missile drill in the midst of the chaos. Hunter, partly due to disagreement with the drill, is late reporting to missile control. Ramsey chastises Hunter for the appearance of discord in front of sailors. Day 6, Meanwhile Alabama receives an Emergency Action Message that Radchenko's forces have acquired nuclear weapons. status is Defcon 3.
Day 11, Hunter observes a fight between two sailors over a trivial matter and believes the crew's morale is suffering. Ramsey's response is to collectively chastise the Alabama crew as a whole via the 1MC system over a lack of battle focus. Day 12, Alabama eventually receives an Emergency Action Message, ordering the launch of ten of its missiles against the Russian nuclear installation, based on satellite information that the Russians' missiles are being fueled. Before Alabama can launch its missiles, a second radio message begins to be received, but is cut off by the attack of a Russian Akula-class submarine loyal to Radchenko (The Alabama was too deep to receive the EAM, so Hunter suggests to release the radio buoy, but the wrench makes a terrible noise, and this allows the Russian submarine to locate them and initiate their attack). Alabama escapes by launching countermeasures, but the low frequency antenna and the radio buoy are both damaged. The radio electronics are damaged in the attack and cannot be used to decode the second message. With the last confirmed order being to launch, Captain Ramsey decides to proceed. Hunter refuses to concur as is required because he believes the partial second message may be a retraction. Hunter argues that Alabama is not the only American submarine in the area, and if the order is not retracted, other submarines will launch their missiles as part of the fleet's standard redundancy doctrine. Ramsey argues that the other American submarines may have been destroyed. When Hunter refuses to consent, Ramsey tries to relieve him of duty and replace him with a different officer. Instead, Hunter orders the arrest of Ramsey for attempting to circumvent protocol. The crew's loyalty is divided between Hunter and Ramsey, but the Chief of the Boat Walter (George Dzundza) sides with Hunter ("by the book") in having Ramsey relieved of command and confined to his stateroom, putting Hunter in command. Alabama is attacked again by the Russian submarine. Alabama destroys the submarine but is hit by a torpedo it failed to elude during the attack. The submarine's main propulsion system is disabled, and the bilge bay is taking on water. As the crew frantically tries to restore propulsion, Hunter orders the sealing of the bilge with sailors trapped inside, preventing too much water from being taken on but causing the sailors to drown. Just before the submarine reaches hull crush depth, the propulsion is restored. The officers and crew loyal to Ramsey (led by Bobby Dougherty, and Lieutenant Peter Ince, Weapons Officer (WEPS) (Viggo Mortensen) (who has the keys to the small arms unit), and Roy Zimmer) unite and retake the control room (before being arrested Hunter gives his keys to Petty Officer Danny Rivetti (Danny Nucci), Sonar Supervisor), confining Hunter, the Chief of the Boat and a few others to the officers' mess. The radio team continue to work on repairing their communications systems but the Captain is determined to continue without waiting for verification. Hunter escapes his arrest (with the help of Rivetti) and gains the support of the weapons officer in the missile control room, further delaying the launch and leading the Captain to proceed to missile control to force the weapons officer (who is the only man on board who knows the combination to the safe with the firing trigger to actually launch the missiles) to comply with him - by threatening to execute one of his men.
Hunter, alongside officers and men loyal to him, storms the ship's command center (since Ramsey is in weapons control), removing the captain's missile key seconds before the Captain could launch, disabling the launch systems. Ramsey and his men return to the control room, resulting in a Mexican standoff with both sides heavily armed and refusing to back down. But with the radio team reporting they are near success; the two men agree to a compromise; they will wait until the deadline for missile launch to see if the radio can be repaired. The two men discuss whether Lipizzans stallions came from Spain or Portugal, and whether they are born white or black. After several tense minutes, communications are restored, and they finally see the full message from the second transmission. It is a retraction ordering that the missile launch be aborted because Radchenko's rebellion has been quelled. Ramsey at that point turns command over to Hunter and returns to his cabin. After returning to base, Ramsey and Hunter are put before a naval tribunal at Naval Station Pearl Harbor to answer for their actions. The tribunal concludes that both men were simultaneously right and wrong, and Hunter's actions were deemed lawfully justified and in the best interests of the United States. Unofficially, the tribunal chastises both men for failing to resolve the issues between them. Thanks to Ramsey's personal recommendation, the tribunal agrees to grant Hunter command of his own sub while allowing Ramsey to save face via an early retirement. While leaving the base, Ramsey admits to Hunter that he was right; that the Lipizzaner stallions came from Spain.
As of Jan 1, 1996, authority to fire nuclear missiles from subs was removed from sub captains and given to POTUS.