movieId: 15
title: Cutthroat Island
year: 1995
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0112760/
ratingValue: 
directors: Renny Harlin
actors: Geena Davis, Matthew Modine, Frank Langella, Maury Chaykin, Patrick Malahide, Stan Shaw, Rex Linn, Paul Dillon, Christopher Masterson, Jimmie F. Skaggs

synopsis:
Jamaica 1668. After bedding and outsmarting a bounty hunter trying to arrest her, female pirate Morgan Adams (Geena Davis) hunts down her uncle and fellow pirate Dawg Brown (Frank Langella), who has captured her father, Black Harry (Harris Yulin). Harry has one of three pieces of a map to a huge stash of gold on a remote island called Cutthroat Island. Harry and Dawg are brothers.
Dawg had anchored his ship close to the coast, and Morgan approaches it in a small boat which Harry sees coming. Dawg has another piece, having stolen it from the corpse of a third brother Richard, while a fourth brother, Mordachai (George Murcell), has the third. Dawg tries to force Harry to give him the map, but Harry refuses and escapes with Morgan's help. Harry jumps off Dawg's ship with an anchor tied to his leg. As he jump, Dawg's crew opens fire and Harry is mortally wounded by gunshot. Harry is pulled underwater by the anchor as Morgan dives in to save him. Morgan cuts the anchor rope from Harry's leg and pulls him to the shore.
Before dying, Harry reveals to his daughter the location of the map piece: on his scalp. Harry tells Morgan to approach Mordachai using Harry's ship and crew. After scalping her dead father for the piece, Morgan, now the captain of her father's ship, the Morning Star, sets out for the treasure. Morgan had to contest the captaincy with crew member Scully, but Morgan argues by showing the map to the crew and claiming that Harry meant for the treasure to be divided among the crew. Morgan outlines the plan to join forces with Mordachai to pursue the treasure. Mr Blair (Rex Linn) is the quartermaster and the final choice rests with him. Blair backs Morgan as that was Harry's last wish. Unfortunately, the instructions appear to be in Latin, which no one on board reads. So, they go to nearby Port Royal to find a translator. This is dangerous as Port Royal had declared the death penalty for pirates. There, they learn that one of the slaves up for auction, a con man and thief named William Shaw (Matthew Modine), is fluent in Latin. Shaw had been arrested by the Governor of Port Royal for infiltrating the royal ball and stealing jewels from the noble ladies by pretending to be a medical doctor and charming them with lewd talk.
After threatening a man determined to win, Morgan wins the auction by bidding 40 pounds (when the starting bid was for 5 pounds). Shaw is attracted to Morgan. Unfortunately, she is recognized from her wanted poster (as she had a bounty on her head for 100 pounds) and is chased out of town, along with her crew and Shaw. The vast army of Port Royal is not able to stop Morgan, her bodyguard and Shaw from escaping. While running across town, Morgan and Shaw inflict considerable damage on the residential and official structures of the city. The royal ships anchored at port open fire at Morgan's carriage and end up hitting the buildings instead, thereby completely demolishing the town. Humiliated, corrupt Governor Ainslee (Patrick Malahide) vows to find her, either to arrest her or form a partnership for half her profits. To this end, he enlists the help of chronicler John Reed (Maury Chaykin), who often follows pirates to write his books and is already a crew member of the Morning Star. Ainslee tells Reed to deliver his message to Morgan to cut him in for a share of the treasure or to be hunted down and killed as pirate. The Morning Star crew then goes to Mordachai in Spittlefield Harbor. Before they can learn where the second piece is, however, Dawg appears. A fight ensues, during which Mordachai is killed, Morgan is shot, and Shaw secretly finds the piece and keeps it to himself. After they escape on the Morning Star, Morgan collapses from her wound, but is saved by Shaw, who is a self-proclaimed doctor. During this time, the two start a romance. In addition, Morgan figures out during the escape that the words on the map, when read backwards, spell out half the coordinates to the island. Eventually, Dawg's ship, the Reaper, bears down on them. Morgan directs the ship toward a coral reef and a gale. Shaw manages to piece together the location of Cutthroat Island with his and Morgan's piece but is caught and thrown in the brig. During the storm, Reed sends a carrier pigeon revealing their location to Ainslee. Meanwhile, the majority of the crew led by the treacherous Scully (Jimmie F. Skaggs) mutinies against Morgan and shanghai her and those loyal to her in a boat. Ironically, though the boat is wrecked, the tide takes them straight to Cutthroat Island. As Morgan goes after the treasure, Shaw, who escaped during the storm, steals the last piece from Dawg, who's on the island, but runs into quicksand. Morgan finds him and, after finding out he has the piece, frees him. Together, they find the gold, only for it to be stolen by Dawg, forcing them to jump off a cliff into the tide. After regaining consciousness, Shaw finds Reed, who leads him into a trap set by Dawg, Ainslee, and the mutineers, who have joined forces and intend to split the gold between them. As Shaw is captured and they make their way out to sea with the gold, Morgan sneaks aboard the Morning Star and retakes it from the mutineers. The crew then tries to sneak attack the Reaper, but Dawg finds them out and attacks. A huge open sea fight ensues, during which Shaw escapes and Ainslee is killed by cannon fire. Morgan eventually boards the Reaper and blows out the ship's bottom to get to the gold. She then duels Dawg while Shaw gets trapped below in rapidly rising water with the treasure. Eventually, Morgan kills Dawg with a cannon and saves Shaw, forced to abandon the treasure to escape the sinking ship. Luckily, Morgan uses a trick to retrieve the treasure and the newly rich crew sets sail for their next adventure in Madagascar.