movieId: 8989
title: Damn Yankees
year: 1958
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0051516/
ratingValue: 
directors: George Abbott, Stanley Donen
actors: Tab Hunter, Gwen Verdon, Ray Walston, Russ Brown, Shannon Bolin, Nathaniel Frey, James Komack, Rae Allen, Robert Shafer, Jean Stapleton

synopsis:
Middle-aged real estate agent Joe Boyd has two loves in his life: his wife Meg and the Washington Senators baseball team. Unfortunately, the Senators seem always to lose, especially to the Yankees, and this strains his relationship with Meg. Other married couples whose husbands are Senators fans face the same situation. In a rash moment, Joe says he would sell his soul to the Devil to see the Senators beat the Yankees. At that moment the suave Mr. Applegate appears with an offer Joe is in no position to refuse: if Joe leaves his wife, Mr. Applegate will turn him into Joe Hardy, a young baseball star who will turn the Senators into a winner. Recognizing what is happening, Joe insists on an escape clause: he can call the deal off and return to Meg anytime before the last day of the regular season; otherwise his soul belongs to the Devil for all time. Joe is transformed to Joe Hardy and taken to a Senators practice, where Mr. Applegate introduces him as Joe Hardy from Hannibal, Missouri. He joins the team after hitting baseball after baseball out of the park during a batting practice. Bolstered and inspired by Joe Hardy's talents, the Senators become a winner and begin to challenge the Yankees for the pennant. But Joe intends to return to Meg and eventually moves into Meg's house as a renter (he cannot reveal his true identity to her). To convince Joe otherwise, Mr. Applegate brings in Lola, who sold her own soul for eternal youth and beauty. But Lola cannot defeat Joe's love for Meg and it is she who ultimately falls in love with him. Sportswriter Gloria Thorpe, who has been promoting Joe Hardy, finds no residents of Hannibal who can remember a Joe Hardy. Mr. Applegate answers that Joe is actually a corrupt minor league player. Joe is ordered to a hearing with the baseball commissioner to prove his identity or be thrown out of baseball. The hearing is held on the penultimate day of the regular season, when Joe had planned to return to being Joe Boyd. Thanks to Meg and other women from Hannibal vouching (falsely) for him, Joe is acquitted. But the clock strikes midnight and Joe is doomed. It is now the last day of the regular season. The Senators can win the pennant by beating the Yankees, but Mr. Applegate has planned for the Yankees to win, setting off heartbreak and maybe suicides among Yankee haters across the country. Lola, knowing the plot, secretly drugs Mr. Applegate so he will sleep through the game. Mr. Applegate awakens to find the game in progress. Realizing what Lola has done, he banishes her and turns her back into an ugly hag. He takes her to the ballpark, arriving in the ninth inning with the Senators up by a run but the Yankees threatening a rally. When a Yankees batter hits the ball to the outfield where Joe is playing, Mr. Applegate turns Joe Hardy back into Joe Boyd, expecting Joe to now fail and the Yankees to win. But Joe still can catch the ball and thus record the final out; the Senators win. Amid the celebration that breaks out, fans and teammates cannot recognize Joe as Joe Boyd, and he makes good his escape. While the world wonders where Joe Hardy has gone, Joe Boyd has returned home to Meg. Mr. Applegate reappears, with Lola again a beautiful young woman, and offers Joe the chance to become Joe Hardy again and win the World Series. But Joe has gotten what he wanted and no longer intends to leave Meg. Forgetting that he had given Joe's soul away himself, Mr. Applegate calls Joe a crook as he leaves for good.