movieId: 1100
title: Days of Thunder
year: 1990
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0099371/
ratingValue: 
directors: Tony Scott
actors: Tom Cruise, Robert Duvall, Nicole Kidman, Randy Quaid, Cary Elwes, Michael Rooker, Fred Thompson, John C. Reilly, J.C. Quinn, Don Simpson

synopsis:
Cole Trickle (Tom Cruise) is a young racer with years of experience in open-wheel racing. He is recruited by car dealership tycoon Tim Daland (Randy Quaid) to race for his team in the NASCAR Winston Cup Series. Daland also convinces former crew chief and car builder Harry Hogge (Robert Duvall) to come out of retirement and lead Cole's pit crew. Harry had left NASCAR a year prior to avoid investigation involving the death of driver Buddy Bretherton. Daland says that he spoke to NASCAR, who confirmed that if Harry comes back there won't be any investigation. Daland arranges a test drive for Cole using the car of current Champion Rowdy Burns, as a favor. Harry doesn't like Cole at first glance is not OK to let him drive a stock car. By Daland says that he already paid $2500 for the use of the track and wants the test to go ahead. Cole tells Harry that he will not make a fool out of him.
Cole sets a fast time in a private test at Charlotte Motor Speedway. Despite Cole being a fast driver, he doesn't listen to any instructions given by Harry. Cole racks up a time faster than Rowdy on the same track a few hours ago. Harry builds him a new chassis and hires him onto his team. The team includes Buck Bretherton (John C. Reilly), Cole's car chief and the son of Buddy Bretherton.
The NASCAR stock car concept is that every car is basically the same configuration, so the race comes down to the skill of the driver. Harry builds a car that is more aerodynamic, with a lower center of gravity, with 40 more horses and a fuel line that can hold a gallon of fuel for longer endurance. During his first few races, Cole has difficulty adjusting to the larger NASCAR stock cars and communicating with his crew while being intimidated on the track by Winston Cup Champion Rowdy Burns (Michael Rooker); this results in Cole not finishing the races, mostly due to crashes or engine blowouts. This prevents Cole from finishing the next three races at Bristol, Dover, and Rockingham. Harry and Cole come to blows when Harry refuses permission to Cole to pit as he was having ice cream. Daland had sponsors in the stands and gives the whole team a dressing down after the race.
Harry blames Cole for being reckless and pushing the car beyond its limits, while Cole says that Harry can't build a car that is suitable to Cole's driving style. Harry asks Cole about the adjustments he wants made to the car. After discovering that Cole does not understand the common terminology used by NASCAR teams, Harry puts him in a series of rigorous training. Harry also teaches Cole everything about conserving his tires and using that to improve his lap times. Harry's way of driving was 6 seconds faster over 50 laps.
This pays off at the Darlington race, when Cole uses a slingshot maneuver from the outside line to overtake Rowdy and win his first race. Daland lands a sponsor for the team.
At a celebration party, Harry reveals that Buddy had a heart attack in his car, before he crashed into the wall at Daytona. The rivalry between Cole and Rowdy intensifies throughout the season until tragedy strikes. At the Firecracker 400 in Daytona, both drivers are seriously injured after their cars are destroyed by "The Big One". The 2 cars drive through a smoke-filled track with accidents piled up and slam into each other on the other side of the smoke screen.
While recovering from his injuries in Daytona Beach, Cole develops a romantic relationship with Dr. Claire Lewicki (Nicole Kidman), the neurosurgeon attending to his health. NASCAR President Big John (Fred Thompson) brings Rowdy and Cole together in a meeting and warns them that he and his sport will no longer tolerate any misbehavior from the two rivals. The two bitter rivals soon become close friends after having dinner and settling their differences by smashing rental cars in a race on the beach, per Big John's persuasion. As Cole is still undergoing therapy, Daland hires hot shot rookie Russ Wheeler (Cary Elwes) to take over his spot. Weeks later, Cole returns to active duty, with Daland now fielding two teams - the second car driven by Russ. Though Cole shows signs of his old self, he finds himself intimidated by his own teammate. Daland offers no help to Cole or his crew, as he is defensive of his newest driver.
At North Wilkesboro, Russ blocks Cole's path during their pit stop, and later forces Cole into the outside wall on the last lap to win the race. Cole retaliates by crashing into Russ' car after the race, leading to a fight between Harry, Daland, and both of Cole and Russ's pit crews, with Daland firing both Cole and Harry in the process. When Rowdy discovers that he has to undergo brain surgery to fix a broken blood vessel, he asks Cole to drive his car at the Daytona 500. Cole reluctantly agrees and convinces Harry to be his crew chief again. Hours prior to the race, Harry discovers that the car is leaking oil, so he manages to have Daland provide him a new engine, who still believes in his former driver's promise.
During the race, Cole's car suffers a malfunctioning gear shift after being spun out by Russ, but the combined efforts of his pit crew, as well as those working for Daland, manage to fix the problem and get him back on the lead lap. This sets the tone for a final showdown between Cole and Russ. On the final lap, Russ predicts that Cole will attempt his signature slingshot maneuver from outside, but Cole tricks him with a crossover, overtaking him from the inside to win his first Daytona 500. Cole drives into victory lane, where he celebrates with Claire and his pit-crew. As he looks around to see where Harry is, he spots him sitting alone on a concrete barrier near the pit stop. Cole walks up to Harry and challenges him to a foot race to victory lane.