movieId: 2722
title: Deep Blue Sea
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0149261/
ratingValue: 
directors: Renny Harlin
actors: Thomas Jane, Saffron Burrows, Samuel L. Jackson, Jacqueline McKenzie, Michael Rapaport, Stellan Skarsgård, LL Cool J, Aida Turturro, Cristos, Daniel Rey

synopsis:
In a remote underwater facility, doctors Susan McCallister ( Saffron Burrows ) and Jim Whitlock ( Stellan Skarsgård ) are doing research on Mako sharks to help in the re-activation of dormant human brain cells like those found in Alzheimer's disease patients. After one of the sharks escapes the facility and attempts to attack a boat full of young adults (who were saved at the last minute by wrangler Carter Blake ( Thomas Jane ) who shot darts into the shark and reigned it back into the holding pen of the research facility), financial backers (who have sunk $200M into the research) send corporate executive (Chimera Pharmaceuticals) Russell Franklin ( Samuel L. Jackson ) to investigate the facility (which was originally built by the Navy as a submarine refueling station during the war). The facility has 3 test sharks, 2 1st gen, and 1 2nd gen female. The facility runs on a skeleton crew over the weekend as most people return home. The facility engineer Tom Scoggins ( Michael Rapaport ) is adamant that he closed the pens (titanium laced) as per protocol and hence the shark escaped some other way. The fences around the pens are 8 feet above the water. Carter warns Susan that the test sharks have started to hunt in packs, a behavior that is unexpected for sharks. Susan warns Carter not to say anything to Russell, else she will fire him and with Carter's criminal background, he will never get any more jobs anywhere. Susan and Jim prove their research is working by testing a certain protein complex that was removed from the brain tissue of their largest shark (when Carter captured the shark in the pen, it demonstrated that it recognized weapons and could also swim backward), which bites off Jim's right arm upon awakening in the laboratory. Susan releases the shark before Carter can kill it.
Brenda Kerns ( Aida Turturro ), the tower's operator, calls a helicopter to evacuate Jim, but as he is being lifted, the cable jams and it causes Jim to fall into the shark pen. The largest shark (the Gen 2 female) grabs the stretcher and pulls the helicopter into the tower, killing Brenda and the pilots, as well as causing massive explosions that severely damage the facility (The fuel dumps and the seaplane all explode). In the laboratory, Susan, Russell, wrangler Carter Blake, marine biologist Janice Higgins ( Jacqueline McKenzie ), and engineer Tom Scoggins witness the shark smash the stretcher against the laboratory's main window, which then shatters, drowning Jim and flooding the facility. The group goes to the facility's wet entry (level 3), where they plan to take a submersible to escape. Susan confesses to the others that she and Jim genetically engineered the sharks to increase their brain size, as they were not large enough to harvest sufficient amounts of the protein complex; this had the side effect of making them smarter and more deadly. When the group reaches the wet entry, they discover that the submersible has been damaged. While delivering a monologue emphasizing the need for group unity (he was trying to encourage the group to don wet suits and swim to the top. Its 230 ft to the top, humans swim 2 feet/sec while sharks swim 50 feet/sec), Russell is dragged into the submersible pool by one of the sharks and devoured. The remaining crew opts to climb up the elevator shaft at the risk of destabilizing the pool (if there isn't enough pressure inside the shaft, the wet pool destabilizes and lets the entire ocean in). As they climb, explosive tremors cause the ladder to break, and Janice loses her grip and falls into the shark-infested water. Despite Carter's attempt to save her, one of the two remaining sharks drags Janice under, killing and devouring her. In the facility's kitchen, which has been partially flooded, cook Sherman "Preacher" Dudley ( LL Cool J ), whose parrot is devoured in the process, manages to kill the first shark with an explosion (He hides himself in the oven. The shark triggers the gas. So, Sherman moves into the upper half of the oven and lets the shark break into the lower half, while he triggers the explosion to kill the shark). He then makes his way to the elevator shaft (on level 2), where he encounters Carter, Tom, and Susan. Carter and Tom go to the flooded laboratory to activate a control panel that drains a stairway to the surface, while Susan heads to her room to collect her research material. Carter and Tom reach the control panel, but the largest shark storms in, killing and ripping Tom apart, and sabotaging the controls. In the other room, Susan encounters another shark and electrocutes it with a power cable, destroying her research in the process. After regrouping, Carter, Susan, and Preacher go to a decompression chamber and swim to the surface (There is no other option as the station is filling up with water and will structurally collapse anytime). Preacher is grabbed by the last shark but is released when he stabs the shark in the eye with his crucifix, though he escapes with injuries to his leg. Only 1 test shark is left now. Carter realizes that the sharks made them flood the facility, so they could escape through the weaker mesh fences at the surface. Carter prepares a harpoon with an explosive charge inside, rigger to a battery that will send a current. In an effort to distract the shark from escaping to the open sea, Susan cuts herself and dives into the water. Although she manages to distract the shark, she is unable to get out of the water, and is devoured, despite Carter's efforts to save her. While Carter is grabbing hold of the shark's dorsal fin, Preacher shoots the shark with a harpoon, but also pierces Carter's thigh. As the shark breaks through the fence, Carter orders Preacher to connect the trailing wire to a battery, sending an electric current through the wire and to an explosive charge in the harpoon, killing the shark. In the end, Carter reveals that he had managed to free himself in time and joins Preacher to see a workers' boat en route on the horizon.