movieId: 442
title: Demolition Man
year: 1993
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0106697/
ratingValue: 
directors: Marco Brambilla
actors: Sylvester Stallone, Wesley Snipes, Sandra Bullock, Nigel Hawthorne, Benjamin Bratt, Bob Gunton, Glenn Shadix, Denis Leary, Grand L. Bush, Pat Skipper

synopsis:
In 1996, LAPD Sgt. John Spartan (Sylvester Stallone) leads a raid to rescue a busload of hostages taken by the psychopathic criminal Simon Phoenix (Wesley Snipes). Spartan is nicknamed "The Demolition Man" for the large amounts of collateral damage he often causes in apprehending suspects. Spartan mounts an unauthorized assault to capture Phoenix. Spartan kills all of Phoenix's henchmen and approaches the building where Phoenix has kept the hostages captive. After a scan of the area shows no sign of the hostages' presence, Spartan enters Phoenix's stronghold and captures him, but Phoenix sets off explosive gasoline to destroy the building. Spartan carries Phoenix out of the building before it explodes.
The hostages' bodies (numbering 30) are found in the rubble, leading the LAPD to arrest Spartan as well. Phoenix claims that Spartan knew about them and attacked anyway.
Both men are sentenced to lengthy terms (Spartan is imprisoned for 70 years and not eligible for parole before 2046) in "CryoPrison," where they are kept in cryogenic storage and exposed to subconscious rehabilitation techniques. In 2032, Phoenix is thawed for a parole hearing, but he escapes from the Cryo-Prison by saying a secret password (which releases him from his restraints), without knowing how he had learned it. He subsequently murders his guards and the warden, making his way into the city where he easily overpowers and kills several police officers who have never had to deal with violent crime. By this time, the Los Angeles, San Diego, and Santa Barbara regions have merged into the pacifist utopia of San Angeles, under the guidance of Dr. Raymond Cocteau (Nigel Hawthorne). The city has eliminated crime, and the police are mostly confined to their station.
All of humanity's vices have been outlawed, and the police have become incapable of dealing with violent and pathological criminals such as Phoenix. Lieutenant Lenina Huxley (Sandra Bullock) is an idealistic SAPD officer who is fascinated with 20th-century culture. Alfredo Garcia (Benjamin Bratt) is Huxley's colleague. The SAPD is left shocked by the murders committed by Phoenix. Huxley learns that Phoenix escaped with one of the doctor's vehicles at the prison facility and tracks the vehicle. Police officers are dispatched to apprehend Phoenix. Phoenix easily defeats the officers and escapes. He somehow knows all the safety or access codes used across various equipment across the city. Phoenix accesses an automated information kiosk and learns that 20th century firearms are now only kept in museums. Phoenix is subconsciously programmed to hunt for a man named Edgar Friendly, but he does not know why.
Cocteau orders SAPD Chief George to apprehend Phoenix by any means necessary. Edgar Friendly is the leader of the resistance movement and Cocteau is determined to apprehend him and bring him to justice. Huxley learns about Spartan's career from veteran officer Zachary Lamb (Bill Cobbs), who suggests that their best chance to stop Phoenix is by enlisting someone with the experience and mindset to anticipate his actions. Huxley learns that in his time Spartan arrested 1000 criminals in 3 years. Huxley persuades her superior Chief George Earle (Bob Gunton) to parole Spartan and reinstate him to active duty. Spartan is brought out from Cryogenic suspension and thawed out. He is told that Phoenix is on the loose and has killed 11 people so far. Local police cannot deal with him as SAPD had no homicides in the last 16 years.
Spartan finds life in San Angeles to be sterile and oppressive, since all types of behavior deemed immoral or unhealthy, such as sports, alcohol, swearing, eating meat, and having sex have been declared illegal. Spartan has trouble adapting to life in this peaceful setting, while most of Huxley's fellow officers especially Head Chief George Earle (Bob Gunton), find him brutish and uncivilized.
Anticipating that Phoenix will attempt to secure firearms, Spartan has Huxley lead him to a museum.
Phoenix breaks into a museum's weapon exhibit to arm himself. To Spartan's surprise, Phoenix is even deadlier than before. Phoenix escapes and holds Cocteau at gunpoint, but is unable to kill him, as Cocteau had implanted a command in his rehabilitation program to prevent him from doing so. Cocteau instead orders Phoenix to kill Edgar Friendly (Denis Leary), the leader of a resistance group called the Scraps who refuse to conform to Cocteau's moral ideals and who live in the underground ruins of old Los Angeles.
Spartan first encounters the Scraps when they raid a dinner party given by Cocteau. Spartan and Huxley witness this exchange on security cameras and review the Cryo-Prison records. They discover that Phoenix's rehabilitation program was tailored by Cocteau to make him even more dangerous than he was in 1996, including martial arts, computer hacking, knowledge of torture techniques, and murderous impulses; by contrast, Spartan's program taught him to knit and sew.
Spartan deduces that Cocteau was training Phoenix with the goal of eliminating Friendly and go to the ruins to meet with Friendly and warn him. Meanwhile Phoenix meets with Cocteau, realizing what he has done, and has him release other prisoners to assist him. During a car chase through San Angeles, Phoenix admits to Spartan that the hostages he took in 1996 were already dead before the building exploded, so Spartan spent 36 years in prison for a crime he never committed. Phoenix escapes and Spartan arms himself with help from the Scraps as they emerge in force to get food. Realizing that he cannot kill Cocteau himself because of his rehabilitation, Phoenix instead has one of his men do it and begins thawing the CryoPrison's most dangerous convicts. Spartan enters the facility and fights Phoenix. Spartan kills Phoenix by freezing him solid. The uncontrolled quick-freezing effect then triggers an explosion that destroys the Cryo-prison. With Cocteau dead and the prison destroyed, the police and Scraps find themselves at odds over how to run their society. The police fear that the loss of Cocteau and the Cryo-Prison will end society as they know it, but Spartan suggests that they and the Scraps cooperate to combine the best aspects of order and personal freedom. He kisses Huxley and they leave together.