movieId: 3146
title: Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0205000/
ratingValue: 
directors: Mike Mitchell
actors: Rob Schneider, William Forsythe, Eddie Griffin, Arija Bareikis, Oded Fehr, Gail O'Grady, Richard Riehle, Jacqueline Obradors, Big Boy, Amy Poehler

synopsis:
Deuce Bigalow (Rob Schneider), a diminutive fish tank cleaner (aquarist), is fired for cleaning the tank at a public aquarium in the nude. Deuce argues that swimming trunks are loaded with chemicals that can be harmful to fish, but is thrown out. Deuce has no success in attracting women, so he tries to stay busy with work. Deuce wants to connect with a fish shop employee Alison (Bree Turner) but she is completely uninterested in him. On a house call, he meets a Russian male prostitute Antoine Laconte (Oded Fehr). Antoine is gorgeous looking, with long hair and a fit body. He is always seen in the company of the sexiest girls. Deuce was cleaning a large fishpond in Antoine's building, when he was attacked by a pet fish and has to be rescued by Antoine. Deuce goes into Antoine's house to get some medicine for his cuts. Antoine's home is the most luxurious with a Persian carpet and a collection of medieval weapons. In the house is also a large aquarium tank, which is custom built, living color, anti-glare and has a retractable top. It is state of the art. Antoine tells Deuce that he is a gigolo. Later, Antoine calls Deuce when his lion-fish goes limp in the tank. Deuce fixes the Ph level of the tank ad gives some medicine to the fish but says that it needs to be monitored for 48 hours.
Antoine is going on a business trip, and he asks Deuce to care for his prized lion-fish (which costs $1000) and his home while he is away. Deuce accidentally sets Antoine's kitchen on fire when trying to make a grilled cheese sandwich in the toaster and smashes an expensive fish tank. Fearing Antoine will kill him, Deuce is forced to find a way to pay for the damage. Low-rent pimp T.J. Hicks (Eddie Griffin) offers to help Deuce make enough money to buy a new fish tank and convinces Deuce to take over the absent Antoine's role as a gigolo. Deuce decides to make the clients feel better about themselves, since he only desires to have sex with beautiful, sexy women.
Deuce meets unusual clients, but he still manages to get along with them, despite there being no sex involved, by doing something that has never happened with them before. These clients include: A woman Carol (Deborah Lemen) who is severely narcoleptic. Rather than having sex, Deuce just literally sleeps in bed with her. One woman Ruth (Amy Poehler) who has Tourette Syndrome with Coprolalia and therefore is afraid of socializing. Deuce decides to take her to a baseball game, where her sporadic outbursts of profanity are likely to fit in with the crowd's yelling. After a few outbursts, the crowd starts cheering with her. An obese woman Fluisa (Big Boy) weighing close to 750 pounds. Deuce averts the woman's advances, leaving her somewhat emotionally disarmed to the point of revealing her insecurities with her appearance. Deuce quickly comes up with an alternative form of "play", and the scene changes to Deuce and the woman sitting on her sofa playing a food-themed trivia game. Another woman Tina (Torsten Voges) has a pituitary gland disorder and is extremely tall, so tall in fact that her face is always out of frame. As Deuce walks down a sidewalk with the woman, various unseen bystanders yell insults at her, such as "Freak!" and "That's a huge b***h!". Deuce's list of clients gradually increases, with each client being satisfied by much more fulfilling measures due to Deuce's evasion of sex with them. Such as the aforementioned tall woman heard groaning with pleasure while Deuce is giving her a foot massage, exclaiming that no one had ever touched her feet before. However, Deuce falls in love with one of his clients, Kate (Arija Bareikis), who has a prosthetic leg. Deuce introduces Kate to his dad Robert "Bob" Bigalow (Richard Riehle) who is a bathroom attendant. Initially embarrassed, Kate reassures Deuce and the pair fall in love. She later breaks up with Deuce when she finds out that he was a prostitute hired by her friends. Meanwhile, Deuce is pursued by Detective Chuck Fowler (William Forsythe), who demands Antoine's "black book" of clients and threatens to take Deuce to jail if he does not comply. Deuce learns Fowler's wife Elaine (Jacqueline Obradors) was one of Antoine's clients. Deuce eventually helps Detective Fowler please his wife by stripping and erotically dancing for her, and the two make peace. Deuce is still taken into custody on prostitution charges, as Fowler needs someone to bring in. At the hearing, it is revealed that Deuce never slept with any of the clients except for Kate but rather he made them feel good about themselves. Since Deuce gave back the money to Kate and was not paid for sex with her, he is cleared of all charges. Deuce and Kate reconcile. Using the money he made, Deuce restores Antoine's fish tank, albeit with lower-quality glass. He is warned that the custom aquarium glass may not be installed properly. Unfortunately, Kate's blind roommate Bergita (Dina Platias) accidentally kills the prized lion-fish. Deuce buys a replacement fish and returns to Antoine's house just in time. Antoine is suspicious but cannot figure out why. He taps the new aquarium and the glass shatters. Deuce then reveals his escapades to the confused and angry Antoine. Outraged, Antoine tries to kill Deuce, and at one point shoots an arrow at him. However, the aforementioned overweight client shows up, comes between the two men, and saves Deuce's life (she is not killed because the arrow hits her breasts, between which she has hidden a roast chicken). Antoine is then arrested by Detective Fowler. A beach-side reception reveals the fates of the characters: Bob became a gigolo and earns $7.00. Ruth opened up an all-girls school for those with Tourette's. Carol fulfilled her dream of visiting the Eiffel Tower: "she will be missed". Fluisa underwent liposuction and became a Victoria's Secret model named Naomi. Antoine and Tina had tall and hairy children. T.J. starred in a hit sitcom called "Hanging with Mr. Man-Pimp". Deuce and Kate married and formed an anti-sushi movement, living happily ever after.