movieId: 2759
title: Dick
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0144168/
ratingValue: 
directors: Andrew Fleming
actors: Kirsten Dunst, Michelle Williams, Dan Hedaya, Will Ferrell, Bruce McCulloch, Teri Garr, Dave Foley, Jim Breuer, Ana Gasteyer, Harry Shearer

synopsis:
Betsy Jobs (Kirsten Dunst) and Arlene Lorenzo (Michelle Williams) are two sweet but somewhat ditsy teenage girls living in Washington D.C. in the early 1970s. Betsy comes from a wealthy family in the Georgetown area, while Arlene lives with her widowed mother Helen (Teri Garr) in an apartment in the Watergate building.
Betsy stays with her father David (Karl Pruner) and brother Larry (Devon Gummersall). The house is upset as Larry has recently been drafted. One night, on a quest to mail a letter to enter a contest to win a date with teen idol singer Bobby Sherman, the two girls sneak out of Arlene's home, at the same time as the Watergate break-in. They manage to enter and leave through the parking garage door, accidentally causing the break-in to be discovered. They are seen by G. Gordon Liddy (Harry Shearer), who they believe to be committing a jewel robbery; they panic and run away. The security guard, who had heard the parking garage door being shut, goes to investigate and is startled by the taped door. The guard calls the police, who immediately arrest the burglars. The burglary revolved around members of a group associated with Nixon's 1972 re-election campaign breaking into and planting listening devices (and also taking photographs of confidential documents) in the Democratic National Committee headquarters at the Watergate Office Building in Washington, D.C., on June 17, 1972. The next day, while at the White House on a school tour, they accidentally happen across Liddy again. They don't recognize him, but he recognizes them and instantly becomes suspicious. The girls had noticed a piece of paper stuck to the underside of Liddy's shoe, which they assumed to be toilet paper. But when Liddy left, they picked the paper which had some named and an amount of money written next to each name. They keep the paper as a souvenir. Liddy points them out to H. R. Haldeman (Dave Foley), who proceeds to interrogate them; their conversation (in which it is revealed that the girls don't actually think about the President that much) is interrupted by a phone call from Haldeman's wife. During the call the door of their room opens up and they can see directly into the Oval office with Nixon playing with his dog named Checkers. Arlene attracts the attention of the dog with a whistle, which brings Nixon into their room as well.
President Nixon / Dick (Dan Hedaya), who takes Haldeman aside to complain about the bugging operation being so fouled up. The girls are naturally awestruck at being in the same room as Nixon - but more awestruck at being able to play with his dog, which gives Nixon an idea. In order to keep their silence, he appoints them his official dog-walkers. Which means they must be admitted repeatedly to the White House. Rose Mary Woods (Ana Gasteyer) is Nixon's assistant. On these visits they accidentally influence major events such as the Vietnam peace process (Arlene advocates that bombing hurts people, and Nixon takes that as the voice of the people and instructs Kissinger accordingly. Arlene says that the people would like Nixon more if he stopped the war) and the Nixon-Brezhnev accord, by bringing along cookies that they have inadvertently baked marijuana into. When Betsy's brother, Larry (Devon Gummersall), reveals the cookies' "secret ingredient" and realizes the President ate them, he concludes that this was likely a leading cause of Nixon's paranoia. They also become familiar with the key figures of Nixon's administration, including the long-suffering, frequently ignored Henry Kissinger (Saul Rubinek), and inadvertently learn the major secrets of the Watergate scandal without realizing what they know. They were finding their way through the White House and mistakenly stumble onto a room where a man was counting money with a machine and putting it into a briefcase, while others were busy shredding documents. Nixon explains that Paper Mache is a hobby of his. Arlene, previously infatuated with Bobby Sherman, now falls equally hard for the president. She adorns her bedroom walls with posters of Nixon and changes her look including wearing contacts instead of glasses. Just after reading an 18½-minute message of love into his tape recorder, she plays back another part of the tape and, after hearing his coarse, brutal rantings, quickly realizes his true nature. When they confront Nixon ("You kicked Checkers, you're prejudiced, and you have a potty mouth!"), he fires and threatens them ("You don't mess with the big boys!"). The girls now reevaluate what they have learned and decide to reveal everything to the "radical muckraking bastards" (Nixon's words) at the Washington Post, Bob Woodward (Will Ferrell) and Carl Bernstein (Bruce McCulloch). So, they become informants; two 15-year-old girls are the true identity of the famous Deep Throat (Betsy's brother had just been caught watching the film of the same name). Woodward and Bernstein - portrayed as petty, childish, and incompetent - are naturally skeptical of the two girls. To make matters worse, their only piece of physical evidence, a list of names of those involved from the Committee to Re-Elect the President, is eaten by Betsy's dog. Nixon's men realize that the girls are a real threat and attempt tactics such as bugging and undercover agents to find out what they know, eventually going so far as to break into Betsy's house and plant an undercover agent as Arlene's mother's boyfriend. Eventually pushed to the limit after being chased by the Watergate "plumbers", the girls decide to take action: sneaking into Haldeman's house, they manage to find and steal a crucial tape recording. They give a transcript of it to Woodward and Bernstein (keeping the tape as a "souvenir") thus ending Nixon's political career. Nixon finds Arlene's message on his tape and erases it, reasoning that he would be "crucified" if it was perceived that he had an affair with a 15-year-old girl. After the resignation, as Nixon's helicopter flies over Betsy's house, the two girl hold up a sign depicting the phrase "You suck, Dick", further angering the now ex-president.