movieId: 5872
title: Die Another Day
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0246460/
ratingValue: 
directors: Lee Tamahori
actors: Pierce Brosnan, Halle Berry, Toby Stephens, Rosamund Pike, Rick Yune, Judi Dench, John Cleese, Michael Madsen, Will Yun Lee, Kenneth Tsang

synopsis:
MI6 agent James Bond ( Pierce Brosnan ) infiltrates a North Korean military base where Colonel Tan-Sun Moon ( Will Yun Lee ) is trading weapons for African conflict diamonds. The UN has banned trade in these diamonds as they are being used to fund wars. Bond hijacks a helicopter that was supposed to be delivering diamonds to the base in exchange for weaponry. Bond puts C4 explosives inside the diamond case before the helicopter landed. After Moon's right-hand man Zao ( Rick Yune ) receives notification of Bond's real identity, Moon attempts to kill Bond. Before practically destroying the military base, a hovercraft chase ensues, ending with Moon's craft tumbling over a waterfall. Bond is captured by North Korean soldiers and imprisoned by the Colonel's father, General Moon ( Kenneth Tsang ).
After 14 months of captivity and torture at the hands of the Korean People's Army, Bond is traded for Zao in a prisoner exchange across the Bridge of No Return. He is sedated and taken to meet M (Dame Judi Dench ), who informs him that his status as a 00 Agent has been suspended under suspicion of having leaked information under duress to the North Koreans. A top US agent in the North Korean high command had turned up dead during Bond's captivity and a prison communication named Bond as the source, leading MI6 to assume he had cracked. But Bond is convinced that he has been set up by a double agent in the British government.
After escaping MI6 custody where he lowers his pulse and simulates a heart attack, he finds himself in Hong Kong, where he learns from Chang ( Ho Yi ), a Chinese agent and old colleague, that Zao is in Cuba. He asks Chang to get him to settle both their scores with Zao. In Havana, Bond meets with NSA agent Giacinta "Jinx" Johnson ( Halle Berry ) and follows her to a gene therapy clinic on a nearby island where patients can have their appearances altered through DNA restructuring. Jinx kills Dr. Alvarez ( Simón Andreu ), the leader of the therapy, while Bond locates Zao inside the clinic and fights him. Zao escapes in a helicopter, leaving behind a pendant which Bond discovers a cache of conflict diamonds bearing the laser signature of the company owned by British billionaire Gustav Graves ( Toby Stephens ). Bond learns that Graves only appeared a year prior, apparently discovering a vein of diamonds in Iceland leading to his current wealth and celebrity. At Blades Club in London, Bond meets Graves along with his assistant Miranda Frost ( Rosamund Pike ), who is also an undercover MI6 agent. After a fencing match that escalates into a claymore sword duel, Graves invites Bond to Iceland for a scientific demonstration. M restores Bond's Double-0 status, but warns him that the British Intelligence has other priorities and Q ( John Cleese ) issues him an Aston Martin V12 Vanquish with active camouflage. At his ice palace in Iceland, Graves unveils a new orbital mirror satellite Icarus, which is able to focus solar energy on a small area and provide year-round sunshine for agriculture. Frost seduces Bond in order to distract him during Jink's capture. Jinx infiltrates Graves's command center and is captured by Graves and Zao. As Zao is about to kill her with a laser weapon, Bond rescues her and discovers that Graves is Colonel Moon, who has used the gene therapy technology to change his appearance and amassed his fortune from conflict diamonds as a cover. Bond confronts Graves, but Frost arrives to reveal herself as the traitor who betrayed him in North Korea, forcing Bond to escape from Graves' facility. Though both Graves and Frost believe they killed Bond, he returns in his armed stealth Vanquish to rescue Jinx, who has been betrayed by Frost in the ice palace. As Graves uses Icarus to melt the ice palace, Zao pursues Bond into the palace using his Jaguar XKR with thermal imaging. Bond kills Zao by causing an ice chandelier to fall onto him and revives Jinx in Graves' hot springs after she has almost drowned. Bond and Jinx pursue Graves and Frost to the Korean peninsula and stow away on Graves' An-124 cargo plane. Graves reveals his identity to his father, and the true purpose of the Icarus satellite: to cut a path through the Korean Demilitarized Zone with concentrated sunlight, allowing North Korean troops to invade South Korea and unite the peninsula. Horrified that it would potentially trigger World War III with the United States, General Moon rejects the plan, but Graves murders him. Bond attempts to shoot Graves, but his aim is deflected by a soldier. His gunshot pierces the fuselage, causing the plane to decompress and descend rapidly. Bond and Graves engage in a fistfight, and Jinx attempts to regain control of the plane. Frost attacks Jinx, forcing her to defend herself in a sword fight. After the plane passes through the Icarus beam and is further damaged, Jinx kills Frost. Graves attempts to escape by parachute, but Bond opens the parachute, pulling Graves out of the plane and into one of its engines, disabling the Icarus beam. Bond and Jinx escape the disintegrating plane in a helicopter from the cargo hold with Graves's stash of diamonds, just achieving ignition before they reach the ground. At MI6 headquarters, Moneypenny ( Samantha Bond ) is using the agency's virtual reality glasses, while fantasying having a romantic moment with Bond but is interrupted by Q. Bond and Jinx have landed the helicopter near a secluded seaside Buddhist temple. Bond has covered her with handfuls of the confiscated diamonds as they enjoy a romantic evening together.