movieId: 1370
title: Die Hard 2
year: 1990
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0099423/
ratingValue: 
directors: Renny Harlin
actors: Bruce Willis, Bonnie Bedelia, William Atherton, Reginald VelJohnson, Franco Nero, William Sadler, John Amos, Dennis Franz, Art Evans, Fred Thompson

synopsis:
On Christmas Eve 1990, two years after the Nakatomi Tower Incident, former NYC police officer John McClane ( Bruce Willis ) now working for the LA Police Department is waiting at Dulles International Airport for wife Holly ( Bonnie Bedelia ) to arrive from Los Angeles. Reporter Richard Thornburg ( William Atherton ), who had exposed Holly's identity to Hans Gruber in the Nakatomi Tower, is assigned a seat across the aisle from her. In the airport bar, McClane observes two men in Army fatigues behaving suspiciously and pursues them into the baggage area. After a shootout, McClane kills one of them, Oswald Cochrane ( John Costelloe ), while the other escapes. McClane calls Sergeant Al Powell ( Reginald VelJohnson ) to runs prints of Cochrane and get a background check. Learning Cochrane was believed to have been killed in action while serving in Honduras, McClane tells airport police captain Carmine Lorenzo ( Dennis Franz ), who dismisses his concerns. McClane tells Lorenzo that Cochrane pulled a Glock 7, which is a German porcelain gun that doesn't show up on an x-ray. But Lorenzo thinks it was some punks trying to steal some luggage. It is Christmas, and Lorenzo refuses to shut the airport down. Former U.S. Army Special Forces Colonel William Stuart ( William Sadler ) and other former members of his unit establish a base in a church near Dulles. They hack into the air traffic control systems, sever communication with the planes, and deactivate the runway lights, leaving Dulles ATC (headed by Ed Trudeau ( Fred Thompson (as Fred Dalton Thompson)]Fred Dalton Thompson), air traffic flight director) unable to land aircraft. Their goal is to rescue General Ramon Esperanza ( Franco Nero ), a drug lord and dictator of Val Verde, being extradited to the United States to stand trial on drug trafficking charges.
His crew includes Garber ( Don Harvey ), Miller ( Vondie Curtis-Hall as Vondi Curtis Hall) ), Burke ( John Leguizamo ), O'Reilly ( Robert Patrick ), Kahn ( Tom Verica ), Baker ( Tony Ganios ), Sheldon ( Mick Cunningham as Michael Cunningham), Thompson ( Peter Nelson ), Mulkey ( Ken Baldwin ) and Shockley ( Mark Boone Junior ). Telford ( Patrick O'Neal as Pat O'Neal) is Major Grant's radio operator. They demand a Boeing 747 cargo plane so they can escape to another country with Esperanza and warn the airport controllers against restoring control.
McClane runs into reporter Samantha 'Sam' Coleman ( Sheila McCarthy ), who informs him that she saw Col. Stuart at the airport. Stuart was the Pentagon official funding Esperanza in his fight against the communist regimes before reports surfaced that Esperanza was using the money to fund drug trades and cement his own dictatorship in his country. Stuart was fired.
With his wife on one of the planes circling above Washington, D.C., with too little fuel to be redirected, McClane prepares to fight the terrorists, allying himself with a janitor, Marvin ( Tom Bower ), to gain greater access to the airport. Dulles communications director Leslie Barnes ( Art Evans ) heads to an unfinished antenna array with a SWAT team to re-establish communications with the planes, but they are ambushed and killed in the firefight, though McClane rescues Barnes and kills Stuart's men. Stuart retaliates by blowing up the antenna & crashing a British jetliner on purpose. A U.S. Army Special Forces team led by Major Grant ( John Amos ) is called in. By listening in on a two-way radio dropped by one of Stuart's henchmen, McClane learns that Esperanza, having killed his captors on the plane, is now landing his plane. McClane reaches the aircraft before Stuart's men. Trapping him in the cockpit, they throw in grenades, but McClane escapes via the ejection seat seconds before they detonate. Barnes helps McClane locate the mercenaries' hideout (He reckons a neighborhood close to the airport from where all the underground lines to the airport pass). Grant finds out that McClane is at the church and decides to raid the location, but the mercenaries escape and blow up the church (there is no way to land the planes now). McClane pursues them but is stunned to discover the mercenaries' guns are loaded with blanks, concluding that the Special Forces team are, in fact, Stuart's subordinates. McClane pursues the mercenaries across the frozen lake in a snow scooter, but Stuart shoots him down with live bullets. Stuart and Grant meet at the hangar for their escape plane, the Boeing 747 (to take them to a country with no extradition treaty with the USA). McClane demands Lorenzo intercept the Boeing 747, the mercenaries' escape plane; but he refuses to listen until McClane fires at the captain with the blank gun, fed up and proving his story. On Holly's flight, a suspicious Thornburg, monitoring airport radio traffic, learns about the situation from a secret transmission between Barnes (who is using the outer marker beacon to communicate with the aircraft without Stuart knowing about it) and the circling planes. He phones in and broadcasts a sensational and exaggerated take on what is happening, leading to panic and preventing officers from reaching the escape plane, until Holly subdues Thornburg with a stun gun. McClane gets on a news helicopter (from Sam, in exchange for an exclusive) that puts him on the wing of the taxiing mercenaries' 747, preventing it from taking off. Grant, fighting McClane, falls into a jet engine. McClane is attacked by Grant, but he gets sucked into the engine. Stuart attacks next and knocks McClane off the plane and frees its wing but doesn't notice the fuel hatch is open. McClane ignites the trail of fuel leading up to the jet, and causes it to explode. The circling planes use the fire trail to help them land. As the passengers are rescued, Holly and McClane happily embrace.