movieId: 1036
title: Die Hard
year: 1988
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0095016/
ratingValue: 
directors: John McTiernan
actors: Bruce Willis, Bonnie Bedelia, Reginald VelJohnson, Paul Gleason, De'voreaux White, William Atherton, Hart Bochner, James Shigeta, Alan Rickman, Alexander Godunov

synopsis:
On Christmas Eve, NYPD Detective John McClane ( Bruce Willis ) arrives in Los Angeles, hoping to reconcile with his estranged wife, Holly ( Bonnie Bedelia ), at a party held by her employer, the Nakatomi Corporation. He is driven to Nakatomi Plaza by limo driver, Argyle ( De'voreaux White ), who says he will wait for McClane in the garage. While McClane changes his clothes, the tower is seized by a German radical, Hans Gruber ( Alan Rickman ), and his heavily armed team, including Karl ( Alexander Godunov ) and Theo ( Clarence Gilyard Jr. ). Everyone in the tower is taken hostage, except for McClane, who slips away.
Gruber's men seal the building from the inside and take control of all elevators. They also cut off all communications to the outside. Gruber is posing as a terrorist to steal the $640 million in untraceable bearer bonds in the building's vault; he tries to get executive Joseph Takagi ( James Shigeta ) to reveal the access code but Takagi refuses; Gruber executes him and tasks Theo with breaking into the vault. McClane witnesses the murder and one of Gruber's group, Tony ( Andreas Wisniewski ), is sent after him. McClane gets on an under-construction floor and triggers the fire alarm to attract the police. But Hans calls 911, gives the fire code and cancels the alarm and disables the system.
Holly's co-worker Harry Ellis ( Hart Bochner ) and Holly discuss in whispers that McClane is behind the events in the tower. Ellis has a thing for Holly. McClane kills Tony and takes his weapon and his radio which he uses to contact the skeptical Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD); Sergeant Al Powell ( Reginald VelJohnson ) is sent to investigate.
McClane kills two terrorists and discovers a bag of C-4 and detonators. Powell, having found nothing amiss, is leaving when McClane drops a body onto his car. After Powell calls for back-up, Dwayne T. Robinson ( Paul Gleason ), the LAPD Deputy Chief arrives with his team. Dwaye refuses to believe Powell's hunch that the person on the radio might be a cop (to protect his identity, McClane had given an alias Roy since he knew Hans could hear the radio transmissions).
A SWAT team attempts to storm the building but is assaulted by the terrorists (with rocket launched grenades and other heavy arms). McClane throws some C-4 down an elevator shaft, causing an explosion that kills some of the terrorists and ends the assault. News media picks up the story and unscrupulous reporter Richard Thornburg ( William Atherton ) arrives on the scene with a truck.
Holly's co-worker Harry Ellis attempts to negotiate with Hans and gives him McClane's identity, but when McClane refuses to surrender (Ellis wants McClane to hand over the detonators back to Hans), Gruber kills Ellis. Gruber calls the police and tells them to release captured terrorists around the world and wants choppers on the roof to take his men and the hostages to LAIA.
McClane catches Gruber checking explosives on the roof, but Hans pretends he is an escaped hostage and McClane gives him a gun; when Gruber attempts to shoot him, he finds it is not loaded. Gruber is saved by the intervention of other terrorists. McClane escapes but is injured by shattered glass and loses the detonators. Outside, FBI agents take control; they order the power to be shut off which, as Gruber had anticipated, and this disables the final vault lock so his team can collect the bonds. The FBI agrees to Gruber's demand for a helicopter, intending to send gunship helicopters to eliminate the group. McClane checks the roof and realizes Gruber plans to blow the roof to kill the hostages and fake his team's deaths. Karl, enraged by the death of his brother Tony, attacks McClane and is apparently killed. Gruber sees a news report by reporter Richard Thornburg on McClane's children and deduces that he is Holly's husband. The hostages are taken to the roof while Gruber keeps Holly with him. McClane drives the hostages from the roof just before Gruber detonates it and destroys the approaching FBI helicopters. Meanwhile, Theo retrieves a van from the parking garage but is neutralized by Argyle, who has been following events on his car radio. A weary and battered McClane finds Holly with Gruber and his remaining henchman. McClane surrenders to Gruber and is about to be shot, but grabs a concealed pistol taped to his back and uses his last two bullets to wound Gruber and kill his accomplice. Gruber crashes through a window but grabs onto Holly's wristwatch. Gruber makes a last-ditch attempt to kill the pair as McClane unclasps the watch and Gruber falls to his death. Outside, McClane and Holly meet Powell. Karl emerges and attempts to shoot McClane but is killed by Powell. Holly punches Thornburg when he attempts to interview McClane. Argyle crashes through the parking garage door in the limo and leaves with McClane and Holly.