movieId: 3615
title: Dinosaur
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0130623/
ratingValue: 
directors: Eric Leighton, Ralph Zondag
actors: Alfre Woodard, Ossie Davis, Max Casella, Hayden Panettiere, D.B. Sweeney, Samuel E. Wright, Peter Siragusa, Julianna Margulies, Joan Plowright, Della Reese

synopsis:
In a dinosaur breeding ground, an Iguanodon (a vegetarian dinosaur) mother is forced to abandon her nest, with only one egg surviving a Carnotaurus (a carnivorous dinosaur species, somewhat similar to a T-Rex but with horns on its head) attack. The mother had multiple eggs, but only one survived the attack as the others were stomped by the rampaging Carnotaurus.
The egg is stolen by another smaller dinosaur, who drops it in the river, when it gets into a fight with a member of its own species over the egg. The egg travels down the river, surviving other dinosaurs who were at the river drinking water or hunting for fish. A Oviraptor carries the egg over a waterfall and across the plains and the ocean. The Oviraptor drops the egg over a forest when challenged by other predatory birds closer to its nest. The egg eventually ends up in a tropical island populated by prehistoric lemurs, who see the egg hatch, name the baby dinosaur Aladar (D. B. Sweeney), and raise him as their own. Grandfather Yar is skeptical of adopting a dinosaur, but his daughter Pilo hands over the baby to Yar for disposal. Yar cannot bring himself to throw away a baby, and so Aladar becomes a part of the lemur tribe. When Aladar is an adult, he behaves more like a lemur than a dinosaur and plays with his lemur friends as there are no other dinosaurs on the Island. Aladar has a happy life among his loved ones and with no threats. Aladar and the lemurs take part in a mating ritual, where his friend; Zini is unable to achieve a mate. Aladar wonders if someday he would meet someone like him. Aladar's friend Zini is the only other bachelor on the island. Moments after the ritual ends, they are interrupted by a meteor shower and a gigantic meteoroid crashing into the Earth. Only Aladar, & his lemur family which includes grandfather Yar (Ossie Davis), his mother Plio (Alfre Woodard), his best friend Zini (Max Casella) and his sister Suri (Hayden Panettiere) survive the destruction of the island by swimming to the mainland. They look back at their ruined home and mourn for the loss of their loved ones before deciding to move on. While crossing deserted wastelands, the group are attacked by a pack of Velociraptors. After escaping them, the family meets a multi-species herd of dinosaurs (consisting of a bunch of Iguanodon, Styracosaurus, Pachyrhinosaurus, Stygimoloch, Microceratus, Parasaurolophus, and Struthiomimus) led by the Iguanodon Kron (Samuel E. Wright) and his lieutenant Bruton (Peter Siragusa), who are on a journey to reach the "Nesting Grounds", a valley believed to be untouched by the devastation of the asteroid impact. Due to the impact of the asteroid, most grazing grounds are now bare and the traditional watering holes have evaporated. Aladar has to join the herd as the Velociraptors are still following them, as they would not dare attack a herd. Aladar and the lemurs befriend a trio of elderly dinosaurs: Baylene (Joan Plowright) the Brachiosaurus, Eema (Della Reese) the Styracosaurus, and Url, Eema's dog-like pet Ankylosaurus. Kron is pushing the herd ahead mercilessly, but as a result the elderly dinosaurs are struggling to keep up. Aladar speaks to Kron about slowing down, but Kron simply ignores him and continues to march the herd.
Aladar also develops romantic feelings for Kron's sister Neera (Julianna Margulies), but she appears uninterested. Kron makes the herd cross a scorched desert to get to the Nesting Grounds. There is no water expected till the herd gets to the other side of the desert. Weaker dinosaurs fall dead on the hike and the Velociraptors feed on them.
Meanwhile, the Velociraptor pack is scared off when a pair of Carnotaurus also pick up the herd's trail. The herd arrives at a lake they've relied on for past trips, but it has dried up, due to the meteor shower from earlier. Kron declares that the nesting grounds are only a few days away and wants the herd to continue marching. Neera tries to argue that they will lose half the herd without water, but Kron simply shrugs that the half that deserves to live, will survive. Aladar saves the herd from dehydration when he and Baylene eventually dig up the trapped water beneath the ground.
Once the water is found, Kron asserts his control over it, and he decides who gets to drink and how much. Aladar and Neera eventually fall in love after Neera sees Aladar helping the dinosaurs (especially the elderly ones) survive. However, Bruton, having been sent by Kron to find water upon arrival at the lake, returns injured by the Carnotaurus which killed another Iguanodon that was scouting with him.
Kron evacuates the herd from the lake-bed in a rush, leaving Aladar, the lemurs, the elderly dinosaurs, and the injured Bruton behind. When Aladar tries to slow the herd, Kron pushes him away and warns Aladar that he will kill him if he interferes Kron's leadership again. Neera wants to help Aladar but Kron forces Neera to leave him. The small group reaches the mountains by nightfall. They find an injured Bruton struggling to move in the mountains and Aladar decides to help him. Aladar invites Bruton to join their group in the mountain caves as rain starts to fall. Bruton shrugs Aladar off, but eventually collapses in front of the cave, with Aladar dragging him in for shelter. Pilo applies plant-based herbs on Bruton's wounds.
The group recuperates in a cave during a rainstorm, with Bruton eventually befriending them. When the Carnotaurus pair attacks, Bruton proves his loyalty when he holds them off to ensure their escape and kills one of them (by causing the roof of the cave to collapse) as the others escape to the depths of the caves, dying in the process. Badly injured, one of the Carnotaurus escapes, enraged by the death of its mate but unable to follow the group.
Upon reaching a dead end, Aladar begins to lose hope, after repeated failures and the loss of Bruton. However, Zini smells fresh air, and finds the dead end to actually be a blocked exit that is hard to break down. His friends all join in breaking down the barrier, stabilizing his confidence. Finally, Baylene demolishes the wall after declaring that it was Aladar who gave them hope and now she is not willing to die inside a dark cave. The exit actually leads to the "Nesting Grounds", although Eema sees that the old entrance - where the herd has gathered on the other side - has been blocked by a landslide generated by the meteors. Knowing that the herd won't survive climbing over it, Aladar rushes to find the herd on the other side, accidentally alerting and being tracked by the Carnotaurus. Kron had reached the landslide and had decided to start the climb in the morning. This gives time to Aladar to go around the mountain and catch up with the tribe. Aladar finds the herd being directed by Kron to climb the rocks, which can't be passed without fatality. But when Aladar suggests the alternate route he found, the herd starts to follow him. Kron becomes enraged at his authority being questioned and challenged and attempts to kill Aladar to try and take back his leadership. Aladar is outclassed by Kron who is about to deal him the death blow. Kron only stops short of killing Aladar when Neera, now fed up with her brother's illogical beliefs, strikes him down and defends Aladar. Aladar and Neera take control of the herd, but Kron refuses to submit to the leadership of another and begins climbing the rocks himself. Aladar and Neera march the herd towards the entrance of the cave that leads directly to the nesting grounds. The Carnotaurus then confronts them, but Aladar rallies the herd to drive it off by standing together and scaring it off with intimidation and loud noises. The Carnotaurus leaves the herd alone, but spots Kron alone and sensing easier prey, charges Kron as he tries climbing the rocks alone, and is followed by Neera and Aladar. Kron manages to hold off the Carnotaurus till Neera and Aladar are able to climb up the rocks to his position.
In the ensuing fight, Kron is trapped at the edge of a precipice and severely wounded by the Carnotaurus, but Aladar is able to push the predator off the cliff to its death. Kron, however, succumbs to his injuries and dies with Aladar and Neera at his side. Aladar and Neera lead the herd back to the "Nesting Grounds" through the cave, where the two eventually mate and have children, and the lemurs find more of their own kind. Yar and Pilo again lend a helping hand to bring up the newborn dinosaur babies.
Plio narrates the ending, wishing for their story to be remembered in history. She then says, "But one thing is for sure. Our journey is not over, we can only hope in some small way our time here will be remembered".