movieId: 1466
title: Donnie Brasco
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119008/
ratingValue: 
directors: Mike Newell
actors: Al Pacino, Johnny Depp, Michael Madsen, Bruno Kirby, James Russo, Anne Heche, Zeljko Ivanek, Gerry Becker, Robert Miano, Brian Tarantina

synopsis:
In 1978. Joseph Pistone, a young member of the F.B.I. He manages to enter the world of the mafia when Lefty Ruggiero notices him, who wants to sell a diamond that Joseph, who makes himself known as Don the Jeweler, tells him is false, although he will help him get the debtor to settle his debt. debt, forcing him to give them his car. In this way, he gains the respect of Lefty, who from that moment on will consider him his friend and will introduce him to the world of the mafia, beginning to prepare reports and send photographs that will allow the police to know the world of the mafia from the inside. Lefty is a small-time mobster who has a hard time getting the money the organization demands from him and who has a great facility for spending it on bets that he never wins. Don is to him as he would like his son to be, a young drug addict with no job or benefit. What he doesn't know is that Don has his own family, which he has practically abandoned due to his new job, not even being able to attend his daughter's communion. His ascension in the world of the mafia is rapid, and the knowledge of the police about this organization is increasing, due to the fact that Lefty, despite being a poor guy, is esteemed by Sonny Black,, the manager of the business of the mafia. mob in Brooklyn because he helped his family while he was incarcerated. His superiors ask him to try to turn Sonny's eyes on Florida, thus trying to prevent his contacts in that area from being lost. Sonny thinks that that area is practically unexploited and he decides to explore the land, so he decides, after meeting with the head of the mafia in the area, to buy a place that will be exploited as a casino and luxury club. But the police will break into the place the same day of the inauguration, destroying everything and taking the proceeds, which makes Lefty suspect the presence of an infiltrator, which puts Donnie on his guard. None of them know that it was actually the local mafia boss, a friend of Sonny Red, who warned the police, thus leaving his opponent, Sonny Black, without the fee to pay the mafia boss, which will mean the death of the police. order for its execution. But Sonny Black, is not willing to consent to this and preempts his opponent's action by killing him and his lieutenants, and rising through the organization afterward. Everything he has experienced leads Joseph to rethink everything and for a time he stops informing his superiors and his wife, fed up with him, asks for a divorce, while he finds himself in a huge dilemma, because he knows that if everything gets to know the First to fall will be Lefty for having endorsed him, and the affection he feels for him does not allow him to let it happen. But his undercover job finally ends when Sonny asks him and Lefty to end the life of Sonny Red's son Anthony. Lefty tells him to shoot, though the timely arrival of the F.B.I. allows you to avoid doing it. A few days later, FBI agents informed Sonny and Lefty that Donnie was an undercover agent. They would both die by that ruling, while Joseph had to change his identity for the rest of his life, knowing that the mob put a $500,000 price tag on his head, even though he was eventually able to get his family back.