movieId: 4200
title: Double Impact
year: 1991
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0101764/
ratingValue: 
directors: Sheldon Lettich
actors: Jean-Claude Van Damme, Geoffrey Lewis, Alonna Shaw, Corinna Everson, Philip Chan, Alan Scarfe, Bolo Yeung, Andy Armstrong, Wu Fong Lung, Peter Malota

synopsis:
In Hong Kong, American businessman Paul Wagner (Andy Armstrong), his wife Katherine Wagner (Sarah-Jane Varley), and their 6-month-old twin sons Chad and Alex and his business partner Nigel Griffith (Alan Scarfe), who run Griffith-Wagner Enterprises, step up to a podium and dedicate the Victoria Harbour Tunnel (Connecting HK to China). The tunnel took 6 years and 200 million dollars to complete.
After the celebration, the family is followed home by their bodyguard, Frank Avery (Geoffrey Lewis), whom they dismiss for the night. Paul's maid is travelling with the twins at the back of their car.
That night, Paul, Katherine, and the twins are attacked by assassin Moon & his men. Paul uses radio to alert Frank who immediately changes direction of his car to come to their rescue.
Moon and his men shoot both Paul and Katherine dead, and plan to kill the twins -- when Frank shows up and kills all of Moon's henchmen, but Frank gets shot while Moon escapes.
Their maid (Wu Fong Lung) is able to escape with Alex and Frank eventually saves Chad (while escaping Frank sees that Nigel was behind the attack on Paul); the maid leaves Alex at a Hong Kong orphanage and Frank raises Chad in France. Chad and Alex (Jean Claude Van Damme) end up separated. 25 years later, Chad is a martial arts expert and aerobics trainer in Los Angeles. Frank raised Chad in Paris after the murders. Frank talks Chad into going to Hong Kong with him. Frank has decided that it's time to get the twins together and get revenge and reclaim what's rightfully theirs. Frank reveals to Chad that they are not related and Chad was not born in France. In a HK bar (a Mahjong parlor) Chad is approached by a blond-haired woman who thinks he's someone else, then Alex appears. The woman is Alex's fiance Danielle Wilde (Alonna Shaw), who thought Chad was Alex. Alex has slick hair, which is tied tight behind his head, while Chad has a slightly blonde took with wavy hair. Frank reveals that Chad and Alex are twin brothers.
Frank tells them all that Paul supervised the construction of the Victoria Harbour Tunnel. Halfway into the project, Paul encountered financial problems, so he pulled in Nigel Griffith as an equity partner. Nigel got his money from a secret loan, courtesy of Hong Kong drug kingpin Raymond Zhang (Philip Chan).
When the tunnel was completed, and Paul's expertise was no longer needed, Nigel and Raymond had Paul and Katherine murdered by Moon's hit team. Chad and Alex were supposed to die, too, so they could not come back and claim what's rightfully theirs, what Nigel and Raymond stole from Paul, which was his business and the dividend payments from the tunnel. Alex reluctantly believes Frank about this story, but Danielle continues to refuse to believe it. Alex is a smuggler & Frank & Chad save him when he is about to be caught by coast guard. The Chinese customers of Alex believe that they have been set up and try to attack him. Chad and Frank help Alex to flight them off and then drive off in Alex's boat. As they are not able to evade the coast guard, Chad drops the contraband into the water to remove the evidence.
Later, Alex tells Chad and Frank that Danielle has been an employee of Nigel's company for the
past 5 years. That's why Danielle refuses to believe Nigel's part in Paul & Katherine's murders. Chad takes a taxicab out to the hotel where he and Frank have been staying, but before he can go inside, he is approached by a group of Chinese men who think he's Alex. Moon forces Chad into a car with Raymond and taken to a boat yard.
Raymond wants "Alex's" help in smuggling drugs, but Chad refuses. To force "Alex" to cooperate, Raymond has Moon place Chad in a cargo container and beat Chad up, trying to convince "Alex" to give in. Chad is then locked up in the container, taken downtown, and dumped out onto a street. After Chad is treated for his injuries, he and Alex decide that it's time to work together against Nigel and Raymond. They start by sabotaging Raymond's drug business, but Danielle still can't believe Nigel is involved. Danielle, who works for Griffith, begins checking his private files for information, but she is being watched closely by Griffith's bodyguard, Kara (Corinna Everson).
Alex takes Chad and Frank to an abandoned hotel on an island to conduct their operations. With intelligence from Danielle, they attack a drug operation and blow it up. Next, they attack a club frequented by Zhang by pretending to bring him Cognac smuggled from France, which is actually just crates of bombs, although they fail to kill Zhang.
Danielle continues to search for information but is caught and sexually molested by Kara. Danielle later calls the hideout revealing she has found something, but her phone is tapped by Griffith who now knows the location of Alex and Chad.
Unable to find Alex and Frank who are out gathering firewood, Chad takes the boat to rescue Danielle by himself. However, Alex becomes paranoid and begins drinking heavily while imagining Chad and Danielle having sex. Chad brings Danielle home, but Kara follows them in a helicopter and discovers their hideout. When they return, Alex attacks Chad in a drunken rage before the brothers angrily part ways for the night. The next morning Chad and Alex awaken to see Triads landing on the beach and, although they kill several, Frank and Danielle are captured. They capture one Triad who reveals that Frank and Danielle have been taken to Zhang's boat at a pier.
Chad and Alex board and fight their way through the ship; Chad kills Moon (who beat him when he was kidnapped earlier) and he and Alex rescue Frank and Danielle. Afterwards, the twin brothers split up: Chad pursues Griffith and Alex chases Zhang.
Alex eventually kills Zhang when he falls to his death from atop a crane. Chad and Danielle are chased through a maze of shipping containers until Griffith threatens to crush Chad with a forklift holding a container.
Chad jumps into the water, sneaks around into the forklift, and drops the container on Griffith, killing him. Alex, Chad, Danielle and Frank reunite after the ordeal.