movieId: 2949
title: Dr. No
year: 1962
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0055928/
ratingValue: 
directors: Terence Young
actors: Sean Connery, Ursula Andress, Joseph Wiseman, Jack Lord, Bernard Lee, Anthony Dawson, Zena Marshall, John Kitzmiller, Eunice Gayson, Lois Maxwell

synopsis:
John Strangways (Timothy Moxon), the Station Chief of MI6 in Jamaica, is murdered by a trio of assassins (The Three Blind Mice), along with his secretary, before his home is ransacked (the assassins steal the files on Crab Key Island and Dr No). When news of Strangways' disappearance reaches M (Bernard Lee), the head of MI6, he assigns agent James Bond (Sir Sean Connery ) to investigate the matter, and determine if it is related to Strangways' cooperation with the CIA on a case involving the disruption of rocket launches from Cape Canaveral by radio jamming. Miss Moneypenny (Lois Maxwell), the secretary to M. Major Boothroyd (Peter Burton), the head of Q-Branch, Boothroyd is brought in by M to replace Bond's Beretta M1934 with a Walther PPK. When Bond arrives in Jamaica, he is accosted by a man claiming to be a chauffeur sent to collect him, but is really an enemy agent sent to kill him. Before Bond can interrogate him, the agent kills himself with a cyanide capsule disguised as a cigarette. After visiting Strangways' house, Bond confronts a boatman that Strangways was acquainted with (Bond saw a photo of Strangways with the boatman, fishing in the local waters. Plus Strangways bridge partners also tell Bond that he was obsessed with fishing for the last 3 weeks and went daily with a particular boatman). The boatman, named Quarrel (John Kitzmiller), reveals that he is aiding the CIA and introduces Bond to their agent Felix Leiter ( Jack Lord ) (a CIA operative sent to liaise with James Bond while he is in Kingston), who is also investigating Strangways' disappearance. Bond learns from Felix that the CIA traced the radio jamming signal to Jamaica, and that Strangways was helping to pinpoint its exact origin. Quarrel reveals that before Strangways disappeared, the pair collected mineral samples from an island called Crab Key. The boats are not allowed to go there as it is a private Island, owned by a Chinese guy by the name of Dr No, with a bauxite mine.
Upon finding a receipt from a local geologist, Professor R.J. Dent (Anthony Dawson) (a geologist with a practice in Kingston, who also secretly works for Dr. No) in Strangways house, Bond makes inquires with him about the samples and Crab Key, but is suspicious of his answers when he claims the samples checked out as normal. Following the meeting, Dent hurriedly travels to Crab Key to meet its reclusive owner, for whom he works, to inform him of Bond's visit. Under strict instructions, Dent attempts to have Bond killed with a tarantula. However, Bond kills the spider and survives. Miss Taro (Zena Marshall), The secretary to Mr. Pleydell-Smith (Louis Blaazer) (Chief Secretary) at Government House in Kingston. She is actually a double agent working for Dr. No. She seduces Bond on his visit to Pleydell and invites him to her cabin in the mountains. On the way, there was another attack on Bond by the Three Blind Mice, but Bond is able to defeat them and they fall to their deaths.
Taro is shocked to see Bond at her doorstep and calls someone to say that she will keep Bond at her place.. Bond overhears and has Taro arrested. Bond waits and finds that the mystery call recipient was Dent himself. When the geologist arrives, Bond holds him at gunpoint, revealing that he believed Dent was asked to check Strangways' samples to see if they were radioactive, before killing him. After checking Quarrel's boat with a Geiger counter, Bond determines that Strangways must have suspected that the radio jamming was coming from Crab Key, and so convinces Quarrel to take him out there. The following day, after arriving, Bond meets Honey Ryder, a shell diver ( Ursula Andress ). Honey visits the Island after the death of her father, who was a researcher and used to visit crab island to catch sea shells for his work. she is not convinced that his death was an accident as he was an expert diver. When armed men arrive on the island, Bond and Quarrel take Ryder with them and escape into the swamp. At nightfall, the group encounter a flamethrower-equipped tank disguised as a dragon to deter locals, which incinerates Quarrel. Bond and Ryder are kidnapped and taken to a hidden base, whereupon they are swiftly put into decontamination due to the swamp being contaminated with radiation. After being led to private quarters set up for them, they are rendered unconscious with drugged coffee. Upon awakening, the pair are escorted to dine with the base's owner, Dr. No ( Joseph Wiseman ): a Chinese-German criminal scientist who has prosthetic metal hands due to radiation exposure. Bond learns that Dr. No was a former member of a Chinese crime Tong, until he stole $10 million in gold, and now works for the secret organization SPECTRE (SPecial Executive for Counter-intelligence, Terrorism, Revenge, and Extortion). Dr No wanted to join the Govt against criminals, but he was rejected and now he works as a criminal himself wanting Govts to pay for their lack of vision. The radio jamming being conducted by Dr. No is being planned to disrupt the Project Mercury space launch at Cape Canaveral using a radio beam, which he states will be a demonstration of SPECTRE's power. When Bond refuses to join SPECTRE, Dr. No has Ryder taken away and Bond imprisoned. However, Bond manages to escape his cell through an air vent and disguises himself as a worker, before infiltrating the base's control center. Bond discovers that the radio beam being prepared to disrupt the launch is powered by a nuclear pool reactor, and overloads it as the launch commences. Dr. No attempts to stop him but falls into the reactor pool and is killed. As the base's personnel evacuate, Bond frees Ryder before the two escape the island by boat, moments before the base is destroyed. Felix finds the pair adrift at sea after their boat runs out of fuel, and has them towed to safety by a Royal Navy ship. However, as Ryder passionately kisses him, Bond lets go of the tow rope to embrace her.