movieId: 2644
title: Dracula
year: 1931
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0021814/
ratingValue: 
directors: Tod Browning, Karl Freund
actors: Bela Lugosi, Helen Chandler, David Manners, Dwight Frye, Edward Van Sloan, Herbert Bunston, Frances Dade, Joan Standing, Charles K. Gerrard, Anna Bakacs

synopsis:
The opening scene is on a quiet road surrounded by ominous mountains. A carriage with 6 people is going into the town near Count Dracula's castle. The driver drops everyone off and then talks to a townsperson about where real estate agent Renfield (Dwight Frye), one of the passengers is going next. The townspeople plead with him not to go, for that is the castle of Count Dracula and his Vampire wives. Despite the warnings, Renfield decides to go anyway. As he arrives, female Vampires are rising from their tombs in the castle as the evil Dracula watches. Then Renfield enters, though he is leery to. Of course after seeing some creepy creatures scurrying around the castle, he is greeted by the infamous Count, who bids him "welcome". Later, Renfield confirms that he kept his visit to Dracula's castle a secret, and then they discuss the sale of the castle which is what Renfield came for. They say good night and Renfield prepares to turn in. Three female vampires enter his room as he passes out from an encounter from the vampire bat (Dracula). In the next scene, Renfield is shown as Dracula's ghoul that wakes him after sunset. Dracula is then shown on the very stormy ocean in a ship, on their way to London. After Dracula and his ghoul are on land, a newspaper describing the fate of the entire crew is displayed. It also stated that the only survivor was the now insane Renfield who is placed under mental care. Dracula waits until dark and then goes to the Opera and immediately introduces himself to Dr. Seward, his wife, their daughter Mina, and her escort John Harker. As they chat, Dracula tries to intrigue Mina, his next targeted victim. Later that night, the Vampire visits her while she is in bed. The next day, Renfield is shown at the asylum screaming and raving. Then Van Helsing is shown doing blood work on one of Dracula's dead victims. He tells Dr. Seward who is treating Renfield, and a few other men, that they are dealing with the undead. The two men meet with Renfield to learn more about Dracula, and Renfield asks to be sent far away. Then wolves start to howl in the distant air when there are no wolves in London. Renfield goes mad after Van Helsing reveals the truth about the howl. As he is carried away, Renfield tells Van Helsing that he knows too much to live any longer. Though no one believes Van Helsing, they follow his demands that Renfield be watched. Dracula stands out side of Renfield's cell and gives him some commands, telepathically. Then Dracula flies to Mina's bedroom and bites her on the neck. The next day, Harker, Dr. Seward, and Van Helsing examine her bite marks. Then, the Count interrupts and confronts Van Helsing, letting him know that he and other vampires know of this scientist's reputation. Dracula starts to talk to Mina and everyone suggests she go to bed and they stop the two of them from talking. Before Mina leaves, Dracula asks if he can check on her later. Then Van Helsing opens a box and showed Dracula a mirror and Dracula swats the box away and looks at his new nemesis in shock to learn that Dracula's secret is now out. The Count apologizes and then leaves. He turns into a wolf and then is seen running across the yard, into the night. Then Renfield comes in asking about Mina and warns them of Dracula's actions. Then as he talks about this evil force, Dracula comes to the window as a bat and Renfield pleads to him for mercy. Suddenly, after Harker chases off the bat, a maid that sees Mina laying in the yard, screams. The 3 normal men run out to Mina's aid and the maid is left alone with Renfield. His insane behavior causes her to faint. The next day Mina tells Van Helsing about why she went out to the yard. Mina saw her friend Lucy, who was now a Vampire, wandering in the night looking for a victim. Knowing what she also is becoming, Mina tells Harker, her fiancé. that she has changed and that they can not be together as a married couple. Harker accuses Van Helsing of putting these thoughts in her head, and wants her to go away with him. Van Helsing puts his foot down and prepares for Dracula to return for Mina tonight. They explain to Harker what Dracula is and convinces him to keep Mina there so they can all protect her. As he agrees, Renfield appears again and warns them of his and Dracula's powers. Then Renfield rants about his arrangement with Dracula, until the Count arrives. He confronts Van Helsing and tells him that since he knows of Dracula's secret that he should leave England. Van Helsing says he will stay and kill the Prince of Darkness. Then as Dracula tries to over power his enemy, Van Helsing scares him off with a crucifix. Then Mina is shown in her room with Harker . While the couple sits on the balcony, Van Helsing prepares to hunt Dracula and find his liar. Meanwhile, the bat interrupts the 2 lovers and gets Mina to try to bite Harker, Van Helsing stopped her with a crucifix. Then after she goes to sleep, Dracula comes to her room for her. Meanwhile Harker and Van Helsing are searching the night for his liar. They suddenly see Renfield who leads them right to where the Vampire sleeps. Then Dracula arrives with Mina and finds Renfield. Thinking that he was betrayed, Dracula kills Renfield and then takes Mina to his casket. By the time the two men find them, Dracula is asleep and Mina is wandering. Van Helsing quickly pounds a piece of wood into the Counts heart, killing him and setting Mina free from the vampire's spell. Thank you, Blogmonstermike@wordpress.com