movieId: 653
title: DragonHeart
year: 1996
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0116136/
ratingValue: 
directors: Rob Cohen
actors: Dennis Quaid, David Thewlis, Pete Postlethwaite, Dina Meyer, Jason Isaacs, Brian Thompson, Lee Oakes, Wolf Christian, Terry O'Neill, Peter Hric

synopsis:
Bowen (Dennis Quaid), a Knight of the "Old Code" of honor, valor and chivalry, tutoring his young protege, Einon (Lee Oakes) in both swordplay and the values of a knight. Einon is the king's son and heir to the throne. Brok (Brian Thompson), leader of the armies of King Freyne (Peter Hric). Brok tells Einon of a peasant rebellion, and King Freyne wants Einon to witness it being crushed. Bowen tells Einon to remember the difference between battle and butchery.
(During the battle, a caption says the movie takes place in England in the year 984 A.D.) In battle Einon is separated from Bowen. King Freyen is killed & then Einon fatally wounded in a accident when a young girl (Sandra) pushes Einon into a pike, driving it into his chest. Einon's mother, Queen Aislinn (Julie Christie) orders only Bowen to be with her & Einon. As Aislinn examines her son's wound, Bowen says Einon is beyond all help. Aislinn looks at a small statue of a dragon and says, "Not all." Aislinn takes Einon & Bowen to a mountain cave where a dragon appears. He is reluctant to help, but Aislinn convinces him that Einon is not a butcher like Freyen & will grow up to be a fine leader. dragon insists that Einon swear to all this himself. Einon swears. Dragon opens a chest plate and removes half his heart, placing it in Einon's chest. As Einon wakes up, he commands the boy to do as he promised. Aislinn kneels before the dragon in gratitude, and Bowen promises to repay the favor any way he can, any time in the future when the dragon might need him.
But Einon grows up to be as cruel as his father. He crushes the peasant rebellion, captures their leader Readbeard & orders his eyes to be burnt out. Bowen intervenes but is insulted by Einon. Bowen goes to the Dragon & yells that his gift has corrupted Einon & that now Bowen would spend the rest of his life in hunting the dragon & to kill him. 12 yrs later Bowen is a Dragon hunting mercenary. Brother Gilbert is a monk who finds Bowen on one of his hunting travels. Lord Felton is Einon's minion & keeps track of Bowen & provides him money for killing the dragon in service of the King. Bowen only accepts as he needs funds to keep his horse & equipment. Meanwhile Redbeard, now old, blind, and feeble, is working in a quarry, & has daughter, Kara (Dina Meyer). Einon, now a grown adult, kills Redbeard, just for fun & leaves her to grieve.
Gilbert travels with Bowen to write poetry for his dragon slayer. They discover another dragon (voiced by Sean Connery). Bowen moves forward through the falls to kill the dragon, but it escapes. Soon, they come to an empty field. The dragon scoops Bowen into his mouth where Bowen stabs his sword into the dragon's palate. Both stuck, they come to an impasse and remain that way for a number of hours. The dragon has had enough; he pushes Bowen out of his mouth and traps him under his claws. Instead of killing Bowen, the dragon offers an alternative which would be beneficial for both of them. The dragon terrorizes the villages which allows Bowen to offer protection for a fee. Bowen then "kills" the dragon in mock battle. The dragon claims he is the last of his kind.
Aislinn is disgusted at Einon, who just manages to evade an assassination attempt by Kara, who is imprisoned. Then Einon realizes that Kara is the girl who pushed him into the pike that led to his dragon heart. Einon is indebted to Kara for this.
Einon has sex with Kara, who mockingly attacks him with a knife. As it slashes Einon, the dragon winces in pain. There is link between the dragon & Einon. Dragon doesn't tell Bowen what that link is. Bowen decides to call the Dragon Draco. Aislinn helps Kara escape from Einon's bedroom. She heads back to her village trying to entice another rebellion but is rebuffed by senior villager Hewe. Draco appears & pretends to attack & Bowen arrives to offer protection. Kara accuses him of blackmail. Bowen uses the village's hatred for her & suggest a sacrifice to the dragon. Draco finds the idea disgusting & flies off with Kara, pretending he is appeased. Kara realizes Draco & Bowen are working together. Thats when Einon arrives at the scene & challenges Bowen to battle. Einon says that he made no promises to Bowen & Bowen is disgusted that Einon is as treacherous as his father. Bowen is distracted & Einon defeats Bowen & is about to stab him when Draco intervenes & exposes his chest & reveals his half heart. Einon flees. Kara wants Bowen to lead the rebellion against Einon, but he refuses. Kara exposes Bowen & Draco in front of the villager in their next scam by proving they are working together. The villagers are about to kill them when Draco flies away with Kara, Bowen & Gilbert to Avalon (resting place of King Arthur). At Avalon Draco says that he is the dragon that gave Einon half his heart and he did so knowing that Einon would betray all the vows he made. To gain entry into the dragon heaven he needs to redeem himself. He is keen to help Bowen lead the rebellion. Despondent and having lost faith in the Old Code, Bowen refuses. Bowen then sees a vision at the statue of King Arthur who recites the creed of the Old Code. Bowen repeats the words and is filled with a new sense of purpose, reminded of all that he once swore himself to. Draco appears, smiling, and shields Bowen from the rain with one of his wings. Back at Kara's home village, he tells the people that he is starting a war against Einon, and when they see that he has the support of a dragon, they are all moved to rebellion. The men are trained by Bowen to fight and even Brother Gilbert proves to be a master archer. Brok comes across the village & sees them training with Draco & tells Einon.
Aislinn comes to Einon and presents him with a gift... a team of five of the finest dragon slayers in the land. Bowen & the villagers attack Einon's castle. Draco attacks from the air & takes out the castle's defenses. Einon comes out with his army & walks into a trap laid by Bowen where Gilbert & Kara lead the villagers to ambush Einon's army. Gilbert shoots an arrow right through Einon's heart which drops Draco from the sky & is captured by the dragon slayers. Suddenly Einon spurs his horse and races to the castle, orders the dragon slayers not to kill Draco... he wants him alive, and safe..."for all eternity". Draco moans, "Oh... no."
Kara leads Bowen & Gilbert into the castle through the secret passage that Aislinn made her escape from. Bowen & Einon battle. Gilbert battles Felton & defeats him while Kara kills the overconfident Brok. Aislinn visits Draco, who knows that she is there to kill him. The hit he took from the arrow helped Einon figure out that his life is tied to Draco's and that as long as Draco lives, Einon is virtually immortal, but if Draco was killed, Einon would die as well. Aislinn explains that she made a mistake years ago when she "saved a creature not worth saving". Einon, kills Aislinn.
Einon comes across Bowen, and they battle their way up onto the parapets as Kara watches. Einon breaks Bowen's sword. As Bowen swings away from Einon on a pulley, Einon loses his balance and plunges off the parapet, breaking through a wooden walkway into the bottom of the castle. Bowen reaches Draco and starts to unchain him, and Draco reveals the final piece of the puzzle...through the shared heart, he and Einon share each other's physical pain, but Draco's half holds the life force, and he must die in order to vanquish Einon. Bowen has come to respect and admire Draco too much and cannot bring himself to kill his friend. But Einon appears, bloody but alive, grabbing Kara from behind and putting his sword to her neck. Draco bites hard on his own hand and Einon feels the pain and is forced to drop his sword. Kara pulls away from him, and Einon draws a dagger and rushes at Bowen. In a tense moment, Bown seems unsure until Draco gives him a reassuring smile, pulling back his chest plate. Bowen hurls Kara's ax into Draco's heart. Einon gasps and collapses in shock as Draco smiles at Bowen one last time before peacefully dying. Kara, Brother Gilbert, and the victorious villagers gather around the body of Draco where Bowen is mourning his passing, not knowing who or where to turn to for inspiration. Then he hears Draco's voice telling him to look to the stars. Draco's body dissipates into a rolling ball of reddish light that slowly ascends into the skies, heading toward the constellation that Bowen named him after. The other stars gather around Draco's soul-- the collective of dragons welcoming the last of their kind home. Bowen smiles as he sees that Draco has redeemed himself and gained entry into his heaven.