movieId: 8778
title: Dressed to Kill
year: 1946
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0038494/
ratingValue: 
directors: Roy William Neill
actors: Basil Rathbone, Nigel Bruce, Patricia Morison, Edmund Breon, Frederick Worlock, Carl Harbord, Patricia Cameron, Holmes Herbert, Harry Cording, Leyland Hodgson

synopsis:
Dartmoor Prison where a prisoner is making music boxes, another prisoner approaches him making a proposition to tell what he knows, distrusting the fellow, a comment is made where the man will take his chances, having less than two and a half years before his release. There is no telling who might be on the inside working for Scotland Yard. John Davidson (Cyril Delavanti), a convicted thief in Dartmoor prison embeds code revealing the hidden location of extremely valuable stolen Bank of England currency printing plates in the melody notes of three music boxes that he crafts to be sold at auction. Each box plays a subtly different version of "The Swagman". At the auction each is purchased by a different buyer. Julian Emery (Edmund Breon), William Kilgour (Harry Allen) and a woman who runs a small curio shop and comes often to the auction house to pick up Knick Knacks. After the auction is over, a man Colonel Cavanaugh (Frederick Worlock) comes, says he was delayed and pays 5 pounds just to get the info on the buyers of the musical boxes. Colonel works for Hilda Courtney (Patricia Morison). Dr. Watson's (Nigel Bruce) friend Julian Emery, a music box collector, pays him and Sherlock Holmes (Basil Rathbone) a visit and tells them of an attempted burglary in his house the previous night of a plain cheap box (similar to the one he bought at auction) while leaving other much more valuable ones. Holmes and Watson ask to see and are shown Emery's collection. Emery comments that he has a box in his collection, which he bought just the day before, which resembles the one that was stolen. After they leave, Emery welcomes a female acquaintance, Hilda Courtney, who tries unsuccessfully to buy the auctioned box. when he declines, a male friend of Courtney's Hamid (Harry Cording) who has sneaked in, murders Emery.
Courtney admonishes him for entering, killing Julian, and tells him to get out. They both leave with the box in her possession. The chauffeur is named Hamid, working with the Colonel and Mrs. Courtney. The three of them are in the same vehicle as they drive off, Hilda telling the Colonel of the murder. Inspector Hopkins (Carl Harbord) is assigned to investigate Emery's murder, and he promptly calls Holmes. Holmes finds the music box missing from Emery's collection. At this murder Holmes becomes even more curious and learns to whom else the boxes were auctioned off from auctioneer Ebenezer Crabtree (Holmes Herbert). Crabtree also informs Holmes that the boxes came from Dartmoor Prison and that a man came an hour after the auction wanting the boxes, and that Crabtree gave the man the buyer's addresses. Holmes and Watson arrive at the house of the person who bought the second one, just as a strange maid (Courtney in disguise) is on her way "to go shopping". They later realize it was not a maid and instead is revealed to be Hilda in disguise. She locked a child in a closet in order to steal the box from the child. Holmes is able to buy the third box. Courtney and Hamid track the woman who runs the curio shop and find that Holmes reached to her earlier and purchased the 3rd musical box from her. Upon examination, Holmes discovers that its variant musical notes' numbers correlate to letters of the alphabet. Holmes also finds that the 3 musical boxes were made by the same man in Dartmoor prison, John Davidson, who was connected with the theft of the Bank of England currency printing plates. Scotland Yard fills him in on the stolen bank plates. The plates were stolen 2 years ago. Davidson hid the plates (for printing the 5-pound notes) before he was arrested. any leak of the plates being stolen would have resulted in devaluation of the pound, since public confidence in the currency would be shaken. Davidson never revealed the location of the plates. Holmes theorizes that the plates were not hidden properly, and hence Davidson wants his comrades to take possession of them before he is released 2 years hence. This is where the music boxes connect, but all three are needed to decode the message. Holmes deduces the tune of the boxes is the clue to the location of the plates, but exactly how to extract that information he thinks he will get closer learning more about the tune itself. He goes to an actor's pub where he finds Joe Cisto, to help him identify the song. Joe helps, now Holmes must decipher the variations of the song from the three boxes, one of which he has. Through his part of the message Holmes knows that the plates are in the possession of a Doctor whose first or last initial is "S". So, he instructs Scotland yard to question the 10,000 or so doctors in London who match this description. Back at home, the flat is found ransacked, and a cigarette with a distinct type of tobacco is the sole clue. Holmes tracks down the woman who bought the tobacco (it is a pure Egyptian blend and only 3 people in London buy it), Courtney. While confronting her, Holmes is ambushed by her accomplices, handcuffed, taken to a warehouse, hung by a rafter, and left with poison gas filling the room. While Holmes is narrowly escaping death as he had stolen the cuff keys from Colonel Cavanaugh during the transfer to the warehouse, Courtney steals the box from Watson. Watson is visited by Hilda Courtney on the rouse she is looking for Holmes's help, while she distracts Watson with a smoke bomb, she steals the box Watson inadvertently shows her by moving the biscuit jar before he went for the fire extinguisher. Holmes manages to make it back in one piece and while conversing, Watson offhandedly mentions a quote from Dr. Samuel Johnson. Thinking about this quote, Holmes makes a connection as to where the stolen plates may be hidden. Having stolen all the boxes and deciphered their message, Courtney and gang have joined a tour group at Dr. Samuel Johnson's house, now a museum, where they slipped away and found the plates hidden within a bookshelf. Courtney is stealing the plates when Holmes ambushes the group. Scotland Yard officers arrest them, and the plates are returned to the Bank.