movieId: 4015
title: Dude, Where's My Car?
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0242423/
ratingValue: 
directors: Danny Leiner
actors: Ashton Kutcher, Seann William Scott, Jennifer Garner, Marla Sokoloff, Kristy Swanson, David Herman, Hal Sparks, Charlie O'Connell, John Toles-Bey, Christian Middelthon

synopsis:
Jesse Montgomery III (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester Greenburg (Seann William Scott) are two slackers who wake up at Jesse's house, hung over and with no memory of the day before. Their refrigerator is filled with chocolate pudding, and the answering machine contains an angry message from their twin girlfriends, Wilma (Marla Sokoloff) and Wanda (Jennifer Garner), as to their whereabouts. They go outside only to find Jesse's car missing, and with it their girlfriends' anniversary presents. This prompts Jesse to ask: "Dude, where's my car?" Because the twins have promised them a "special treat", which Jesse and Chester hope is sex, the men are desperate to find the car. The duo retraces their steps to discover just where they left the car.
They go to their friend Nelson's (David Herman) house where they have a talk about reclaiming their memory as well as watch Nelson's cannabis-loving dog smoke on a pipe. Later, they to go to Chinese Foooood, a drive-through Chinese restaurant where the belligerent woman (Freda Foh Shen), who takes their order, annoys Jesse so much by repeating "and then?" that he destroys the drive-up speaker. Nelson drops them off on the street where they meet the local hot girl Christie Boner (Kristy Swanson. They are surprised when she recognizes them and tells them what a nice time she had the night before. Her boyfriend Tommy (Charlie O'Connell) shows up with his friends and threatens them if they talk to Christie again. They end up at the Kitty Kat Club, a local strip bar where they are well known by the dancers. Here Jesse meets Tania (Teressa Tunney), a "gender challenged male" who angrily tells him that she gave him a suitcase full of stolen money to keep safe for her and she wants it back.
Jesse and Chester decide to go to The Twins' house to try to remember the night before. They try to help The Twins clean the house but fail when they accidentally spill garbage all over the living room floor. Wilma and Wanda kick them out. At this point the Jesse and Chester are kidnapped by a group of space nerds who follow Zoltan (Hal Sparks). The nerds tell them that last night they were in possession of a mysterious and powerful device called the Continuum Transfunctioner.
Upon being dropped off back on Main Street, the guys visit the local tailor, Mr. Lee (Keone Young), who gives them their special suits that they ordered the night before. They both find matching tattoos on their backs. Jesse's reads 'Dude' and Chester's reads 'Sweet'. Chester finds a Rubik's Cube in his suit. They also realize they have cell phones and have leased a convertible sports car. The guys then meet five gorgeous women wearing skintight black jumpsuits (Mitzi Martin, Nichole M. Hiltz, Linda Kim, Mia Trudeau, and Kim Marie Johnson). They refer to themselves as the Hot Chicks. They offer to give Jesse and Chester "erotic pleasure" in exchange for the Continuum Transfunctioner.
Both groups of aliens are searching for the "Continuum Transfunctioner", a powerful device. The "Continuum Transfunctioner" is capable of destroying the universe. At this point Jesse and Chester are arrested by the police after being mistaken for thieves and are interrogated at the police station by a pair of overzealous beat cops. Once they are proved innocent, they find out that their car was found last night by the police, but unfortunately it was impounded. An Animal Planet show then provides a helpful clue, though Jesse and Chester do not know it at the time- about how animals use tools, animals 'often use sticks as crude tools'.
Meanwhile, the five Hot Chicks travel to the pizza parlor where Jesse and Chester work, when they meet Tommy and his goons. The Hot Chicks approach Tommy and offer him "erotic pleasure" if they can get the Continuum Transfunctioner away from Jesse and Chester. Tommy sends them to the workplace of The Twins, who work as councilors at a local blind school and summer camp. Wilma and Wanda meet the Hot Chicks who ask the whereabouts of Jesse and Chester. At the same time, Tommy and his friends kidnap Nelson, and call Jesse and Chester to arrange the transfer of Nelson for the Continuum Transfunctioner. Jesse and Chester meet a pair of Nordic men wearing workout clothes (Christian Middelthon and David W. Bannick) who claim to be the Keepers of the Continuum Transfunctioner. They lent it to Jesse and Chester the night before. But the guys are more suspicious than ever and shake the two mysterious guys off.
The guys go to their house only to meet The Twins who break up with them. Overcome with love for The Twins, Jesse and Chester realize they must have really good anniversary gifts in the car and resume the search. Jesse and Chester arrive at a car impound lot where they are told that their car was sold at an auction, but eventually they are able to get the address of the buyer.
Jesse and Chester follow the address of the man who purchased their car at an auction to a very secure ostrich compound. They are attacked by several ostriches and are then captured and caged for poaching by the compound owner Pierre (Brent Spiner). Jesse and Chester are freed when Chester knows the answer to the question Pierre poses thanks to his constant watching of Animal Planet. Pierre offers to give them their car back only to discover it has been stolen from the compound. All Pierre was able to recover was a locker key from a locker at Captain Stu's Space-O-Rama, a local miniature golf course and video arcade. Jesse and Chester go to the local arcade and mini-golf course, Captain Stu's Space-O-Rama. Once inside, they encounter Zoltan and his cultists who give them Wilma and Wanda in exchange for a toy that Jesse and Chester try to pass off as the Transfunctioner. Tommy, Christie, and the jocks arrive along with Nelson and his dog, whom they release after Tommy snatches the fake Transfunctioner from Zoltan.
They discover that the Continuum Transfunctioner was a Rubik's Cube that Chester has been working hard to solve. When he does, it becomes activated. Once the five lights on it stop flashing, the universe will be destroyed. Jesse and Chester must figure out which of two alien groups should get the device. One group protects the universe, while the other wants to destroy it. Both claim to be the protectors and claim that they were with Jesse and Chester the previous night. The two choose the Nordic men, because when asked what the two stoners did the night before, they correctly answered that the boys got a hole-in-one at the 18th hole at a miniature golf park, winning a lifetime supply of pudding. At the last second, the Nords deactivate the Transfunctioner, saving the universe. Angry, the five alien women merge together to become, what Chest calls, a "Super Hot Giant Alien" (Jodi Ann Paterson). The protectors intervene, attempting to banish her to Hoboken, New Jersey, but are knocked out. The giantess then eats Tommy before she crawls out of the amusement center and chases Jesse and Chester.
The cultists tell them to activate the Photon Accelerator Annihilation Beam on the Transfunctioner. However, the button that activates it is too far in to reach. At the last second, Chester remembers the nature show with the tool-using chimps and uses a straw to push the recessed button, thus destroying the alien (and saving Tommy from being digested). Tommy survives, but Christie breaks up with him in favor of Nelson.
The two protectors erase everyone's minds concerning the events and time is reversed to the beginning of the events. The protectors thank Jesse, Chester, and the twins for saving the world, and erase their memories of the adventure. The protectors park the duo's car, a Renault Le Car, behind a mail truck for them to find the following morning. Jesse and Chester salvage their relationships with the twins and discover the special treat from the girls turns out to be matching berets with Jesse and Chester's names embroidered in the front. The protectors leave a gift for their girlfriends (and, for the two men): breast enhancement necklaces. Jesse, Chester, and the twins go out for Chinese food in Jesse's car, while arguing about what their tattoos say.