movieId: 6482
title: Dumb and Dumberer: When Harry Met Lloyd
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0329028/
ratingValue: 
directors: Troy Miller
actors: Timothy Stack, Mimi Rogers, Wayne Federman, Lucas Gregory, Derek Richardson, Eric Christian Olsen, Luis Guzmán, Rachel Nichols, Elden Henson, Eugene Levy

synopsis:
Harry Dunne (Derek Richardson), home-schooled all his life by his mother Mrs Dunne (Mimi Rogers), finally gets his chance to go to regular school. At the same time, another guy named Lloyd Christmas (Eric Christian Olsen) - who has been adopted and exchanged several times until he was accepted by Ray (Luis Guzman), the school janitor. Lloyd becomes overeager and decides to attend school as a regular student. But then Lloyd leaves school in search for his school to attend. Harry bumps into Lloyd on the way to school, in search for a treasure his mother (Mimi Rogers) asked him to find, and as if it were destiny the two end up bumping into each other and Lloyd chips his tooth. The two instantly became the best of friends and travel to school together.
Harry is instantly smitten by Jessica, who wears a short skirt, a tight sweater and no underwear.
Lloyd introduces Harry to his 'friend', Turk (Elden Henson), the school bully whose main function in life appears to be making Lloyd's life hell (despite the latter enjoying it). After putting Lloyd in a dustbin, he hoists the two friends up a flagpole. Turk also doesn't want Harry talking to Jessica or being anywhere near her.
Meanwhile, corrupt Principal Collins (Eugene Levy) is searching for a way to get a large amount of money to get a condominium in Waikiki for him and his girlfriend, Ms. Heller (Cheri Oteri), the school's cafeteria lady. Seeing two guys getting hoisted on a flagpole makes him establish a 'special needs' class to swindle $100,000 from a grant in the name of former Special Needs student named Richard Moffit. Richard was a special needs student himself and is now a big shot. So, now Richard is sponsoring every school in the district with a special grant of $100,000 if they have a special needs class. They need students dumb enough to pass off as their special needs class. Obviously, Lloyd and Harry are more than thrilled to help, and thus find themselves signing up people who are 'different' for the class.
These include a reluctant Turk (who was caught peeping on the girls locker room and signing up for special needs class was the only way out); a teen named Toby (Josh Braaten) who broke his leg in a skateboarding accident - and whom Lloyd believes is a 'little crippled boy' (Toby signs up as there is no homework in the special needs class); Toby's gorgeous girlfriend, Terri (Teal Redmann); geeky Lewis (Shia LaBeouf) - whom Harry and Lloyd believe is a centaur after seeing him half-dressed in his horse mascot costume (Lewis signs up as he can come and go to class whenever he wants and thus increase his work hours); Cindy (Michelle Krusiec), also known as Ching-Chong, an Asian exchange student who later becomes Turk's girlfriend; and Carl (William Lee Scott), a badly injured football player obsessed with his sport.
They are assigned a class in the school garage workshop. Jessica (Rachel Nichols), a headstrong student, is suspicious of Collins' sudden interest in special needs children. Heller is aware of Jessica's snooping and keeps her away from the class. Heller takes the class to a field trip and to take a few photos as proof. Harry and Lloyd notice a giant polar bear at the science and history museum.
Jessica asks Harry for information and invites him to her home. Harry, who thinks that she is flirting with him, turns to Lloyd for courtship tips and takes a chocolate bar as a gift. A repulsive disaster involving Jessica's bathroom and a melted chocolate bar scares her father (who freaks out, thinking that it's "s**t"). As a result, Jessica directs her attention to Lloyd.
Soon, the two friends get into a fight over Jessica, without her knowing it.
Inevitably, the two make amends when Lloyd and Harry realize that they were nothing without each other (that, and the fact that Lloyd stole a stuffed polar bear from a field-trip they had, plus the principal's "evil scheme" evidence he stashed in his office, thinking it was Harry's supposed treasure). The next day, Principal Collins finds his evidence chest missing, and Ms. Heller falsely accuses Jessica of taking it. As a result, Principal Collins prank calls her parents and keeps her at his house overnight in an attempt to interrogate her.
Meanwhile, the Special Needs class builds a float of George Washington for the Thanksgiving Parade. However, after Lloyd and Harry discover the evidence in the chest, they change the float to look like Principal Collins instead.
After the class discovers his evidence, they agree to use him as the float instead. They also plan on having it pulled by the class's special bus. Before bringing out the float, they call the police. During the parade, the superintendent of the school district has a police detective pose as Richard Moffit, so Principal Collins would take the grant. Eventually, the Special Needs class brings out their float and proves Principal Collins and Ms. Heller as thieves by putting their recordings over loudspeakers, therefore exposing their plot.
Before Principal Collins and Ms. Heller escape with the money, they are arrested by the police. Jessica is grateful for Harry and Lloyd and regards them as heroes, but the duo's advances to Jessica are in vain, as it turns out that Jessica had a boyfriend. Jessica's boyfriend commends Harry and Lloyd for exposing Collins' and Heller's plot and rides off with Jessica. Harry and Lloyd vow never to fight and risk their friendship over a woman, but as they head home, they are approached by Fraida Felcher (Julie Costello) and her twin sister, Rita (Shawnie Costello) in a red Ferrari 308 GTS, who offer to take them to visit a new girls' college. After Harry and Lloyd get into another debate over which girl they want, Lloyd declines the offer to settle the debate, and Fraida and Rita furiously drive off, splattering Harry with mud in the process.
Walter accidentally hits Harry with his Mercedes, resulting in Harry getting the windshield and hood covered with mud. Jessica's father recognizes Harry and as he frantically thinks his car is covered in feces, Harry and Lloyd casually walk away.