movieId: 3168
title: Easy Rider
year: 1969
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0064276/
ratingValue: 
directors: Dennis Hopper
actors: Peter Fonda, Dennis Hopper, Antonio Mendoza, Phil Spector, Mac Mashourian, Warren Finnerty, Tita Colorado, Luke Askew, Luana Anders, Sabrina Scharf

synopsis:
The protagonists are two freewheeling hippies: Wyatt, nicknamed "Captain America" (Peter Fonda), and Billy (Dennis Hopper). Their names are a reference to Wyatt Earp and Billy the Kid. Wyatt dresses in American flag-adorned leather, while Billy dresses in Native American-style buckskin pants and shirts and a bush hat. Wyatt is appreciative of the help they receive and of others along the way while Billy is often hostile, unappreciative and paranoid. After smuggling drugs from Mexico to Los Angeles, Wyatt and Billy sell their drugs to "Connection", a man (Phil Spector) in a Rolls Royce. With the money from the sale stuffed into a plastic tube hidden inside the Stars & Stripes-adorned fuel tank of Wyatt's California-style chopper, they ride eastward in an attempt to reach New Orleans in time for Mardi Gras. At nights, they are forced to camp out in the fields, as no motel will lodge them on account of their hippie and biker appearance. During their trip, Wyatt and Billy meet and have a meal with a rancher, whom Wyatt admires for his simple, traditional farming lifestyle. Later, the duo pick up a hitchhiker (Luke Askew) and agree to take him to his commune, where they stay for a day. Life in the commune appears hard, with naive city hippies finding this impossible to grow their own crops in a dry climate with poor soil. At one point, the bikers witness a prayer for blessing of the new crop, as put by one of the members: A chance "to make a stand," and to plant "simple food, for our simple taste." The commune also contains a traveling theater group that "sings for its supper" (performs for food). The notion of free love is practiced, with two of the women, Lisa (Luana Anders) and Sarah (Sabrina Scharf), sharing the affections of the hitchhiker before turning their attention to Wyatt and Billy. As the bikers leave, the hitchhiker (known only as "stranger on highway" in the closing credits) gives Wyatt some LSD for him to share with "the right people, at the right time". While riding along with a parade in a small town in New Mexico, the pair are arrested by the local authorities for "parading without a permit" and thrown in prison, where they befriend ACLU lawyer and local drunk George Hanson (Jack Nicholson), who helps them get out of prison and decides to go with them to New Orleans for Mardi Gras. George has a card for a whorehouse in New Orleans but states he has attempted to go in the past but never made it past the county line. As they camp that night, Wyatt and Billy introduce George to marijuana. As an alcoholic and a "square", George is reluctant to attempt this ("It leads to harder stuff", and "I don't want to get hooked"), but finally relents. While they attempt to eat in a rural Louisiana restaurant, the trio's hippie appearance attracts the attention of the redneck locals. However, a group of teenage girls are interested in the strangers and their appearance and want to meet and get a ride, the local men including the sheriff make mocking, racist, and homophobic remarks. One of them menacingly states, "I don't believe they'll make the parish line." Wyatt, Billy and George leave without eating and make camp outside of town. The events of the day cause George to comment, "This used to be a hell of a good country. I can't understand what's gone wrong with it." He observes that Americans talk a great deal about the value of freedom, but are actually afraid of anyone who truly exhibits this. In the middle of the night, the local rednecks attack and brutally beat the trio with baseball bats while they're sleeping. Billy manages to scare off the attackers by pulling a switchblade on them. Wyatt and Billy suffer minor injuries, but George is clubbed to death. Wyatt and Billy wrap up George's body in his sleeping bag, gather his belongings, and vow to return the items to his parents. Wyatt and Bill continue on and finally arrive in New Orleans and find the brothel George had intended to visit. Taking prostitutes Karen (Karen Black) and Mary (Toni Basil) with them, Wyatt and Billy go outdoors and wander the parade-filled street of the Mardi Gras celebration. They end up in a French Quarter cemetery, where all four ingest the LSD the hitchhiker had given to Wyatt. They experience a psychedelic bad trip infused with Catholic prayer, represented through quick edits, sound effects and over-exposed film. Making camp afterwards, Billy thinks they have made it and will retire rich in Florida but Wyatt declares, "We blew it." Billy doesn't know what he is talking about as Wyatt muses that they failed in their quest for freedom. The next morning, the two continue on their trip to Florida. While on a quiet local road somewhere in Alabama, two inbred-looking rednecks in a pickup spot them riding along and decide to "scare the hell out of them" with their shotgun. As they pull up alongside Billy who is behind Wyatt, one of them lazily aims the shotgun at him and taunts him, asking, "Want me to blow your brains out?" and "Why don't you get a haircut?" When Billy gives them the finger, the hillbilly fires the gun at Billy, who immediately crashes and is seriously wounded. As the truck roars off down the road past Wyatt, he races back to his fatally injured friend, who is covered in blood, and covers him with his flag adorned jacket before riding off for help. But the pickup truck has turned around and closes in on Wyatt as the rednecks don't want witnesses. The redneck fires at Wyatt as they pass him, the bike breaks apart and the bike's gas tank erupts into a fiery explosion. Wyatt is thrown off his bike and lands by the side of the road... dead. As the brutal country boys drive away, the film ends with an aerial shot of the flaming bike and the body on the deserted road, as the camera ascends to the sky. The duo's journey has ended into a terrible tragedy.