movieId: 7317
title: EuroTrip
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0356150/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jeff Schaffer, Alec Berg, David Mandel
actors: Scott Mechlowicz, Jacob Pitts, Kristin Kreuk, Cathy Meils, Nial Iskhakov, Michelle Trachtenberg, Travis Wester, Matt Damon, Lustra, J. Adams

synopsis:
The city of Hudson, Ohio, where Scott "Scotty" Thomas (Scott Mechlowicz) is dumped by his girlfriend, Fiona (Kristin Kreuk), immediately after his high school graduation in 2004. With his best friend, Cooper Harris (Jacob Pitts), Scotty attends a graduation party that evening where the band performs a song detailing the affair Fiona was having with the band's singer (Matt Damon). Scotty returns home drunk and angry (learning that Fiona had been cheating on him this entire time) and reads an e-mail from his German pen pal, Mieke (Jessica Boehrs) who Scotty calls "Mike", expressing sympathy for Scotty and suggesting they meet in person. Cooper suggests that "Mike" may be a sexual predator, and Scotty tells Mieke to stay away from him. Scotty's younger brother Bert informs him that "Mieke" is actually a common German girl's name. Realizing that he had mistaken her name, and that he has feelings for Mieke, Scotty tries to contact her again, but finds that Mieke has blocked his email address. Scotty decides to travel to Europe (without worrying about the summer job he had promised with his dad and the impact it might have on his college applications) with Cooper to find Mieke and apologize in person. Cooper decides to use the Midnite Express company, which provides cheap tickets, in exchange for people carrying their packages in person. But they don't have anything to Berlin for a week, so Cooper decides to take the cheap flights to London. Scotty and Cooper arrive in London, where they befriend a Manchester United soccer hooligan group, who was drinking at a local pub, led by Mad Maynard. Maynard makes them sing a Manchester United Fan song, which Scotty makes up, before Maynard accepts them as true Man U fans and makes friends with both. After a night of drinking, Scotty and Cooper wake up on a bus on their way to Paris with the hooligans (Maynard and his troops are headed to Paris to watch a Man U match). Scotty panics, but Cooper wants to roll with the punches. Scotty decides to hook up with classmates Jamie and Jenny, whom he knows are on a back-packing trip to Europe and are currently in Paris. Once in Paris, the entire troop goes after a Frenchie who is wearing a French soccer shirt. This allows Scotty and Cooper to leave. In Paris, they meet up with their classmates Jenny (Michelle Trachtenberg) and Jamie (Travis Wester), fraternal twins who are touring Europe together. Jenny and Jamie decide to accompany Scotty and Cooper to find Mieke in Berlin. But they decide to sight see along the way, At Crans Sur Mer, they ditch a local monument to visit the local nudist beach. Only to find that the nudist beach has lots of naked men, and all the naked chicks had escaped to the secret beach next to the monument the gang decided to ditch. The group travels to Amsterdam, where Jamie is robbed while receiving oral sex in an alley (The girl is sexually excited by looking at Jamie's Leica M7 camera and took him to the back alley for a BJ, which is when he is robbed by a petty thief), losing everyone's money, passports, and train tickets. They attempt to hitchhike to Berlin, but due to a language misunderstanding (The trolley driver is wanted in Berlin and would go anywhere but Berlin. But Scotty's German is patchy, and he thinks the driver is going to Berlin), they end up in Bratislava. Finding a great exchange rate with the U.S. dollar, the group goes to a nightclub. Drunk on absinthe, Jenny and Jamie make out with each other, witnessed by Scotty and Cooper, and are horrified when they realize what they are doing. The next day, a Slovak man drives them to Berlin, where they learn that Mieke has left with a summer tour group and will be reachable in Rome for only a short time. Jamie sells his Leica Camera for plane tickets to Rome. In Rome, the group heads to Vatican City, where Mieke is touring before her summer at sea. Inside the Vatican, Scotty and Cooper search for Mieke and accidentally ring the bell that signals the Pope has died. Scotty appears on the papal balcony and spots Mieke in the cheering crowd below, who have mistaken him for the newly elected pope. The Swiss Guards detains Scotty and Cooper for their actions, but they are rescued by the Manchester United hooligans from London. Scotty finally introduces himself to Mieke and confesses his love. Mieke is happy to see him, and they have sex in a confessional booth before she leaves on her trip. On the flight back to Ohio, Jenny and Cooper give into their urges and have sex in the plane's lavatory (they both wanted to have crazy European sex before leaving Europe), while Jamie stays in Europe after being hired by Arthur Frommer to improve upon his Frommer's travel guidebook (turns out Jamie gave a tour of the Vatican to Arthur without knowing it, and he added quite a few things that Frommer didn't have in his guide). As the film comes to an end, Scotty moves to Oberlin College in the fall term. During a phone conversation with Cooper, who is now dating Jenny, Mieke knocks on his door, having been assigned to the same room because of another misunderstanding about her name. Scotty and Mieke embrace and get into bed together.