movieId: 61
title: Eye for an Eye
year: 1996
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0116260/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Schlesinger
actors: Sally Field, Ed Harris, Olivia Burnette, Alexandra Kyle, Kiefer Sutherland, Joe Mantegna, Beverly D'Angelo, Darrell Larson, Charlayne Woodard, Philip Baker Hall

synopsis:
Karen McCann (Sally Field) lives in Santa Monica, California, and her husband Mack McCann (Ed Harris) is the owner of the McCann construction company. Karen has a good job at a museum, and she has two daughters -- 5-year-old Megan (Alexandra Kyle) and 17-year-old Julie (Olivia Burnette). Mack is Megan's biological father, but Julie was born from Karen's previous marriage. Mack still loves Julie like she's his own daughter. Karen is on her way home from the museum one day, when she gets stuck in traffic. Karen calls home on her cell phone, and Julie answers. At the time of the call, Julie is preparing for Megan's 6th birthday. While they talk on the phone, the doorbell rings, and Julie goes to answer, with Karen still on the other end of the line. The man at the door the barges in, and brutally rapes Julie, before smashing an ice sculpture over her head. Karen -- having heard the whole thing -- is completely powerless, because she's stuck in traffic, though she desperately tries to get help. A kind Bystander calls 911 for her. When Karen manages to get home, she's devastated to find that Julie has been raped and killed. Detective Sergeant Joe Denillo (Joe Mantegna) is put on the case. And a grieving Karen tries to maintain normality for Megan's sake. However, her state-of-mind is weakening, and it's evident that all she wants is for Julie's killer to be found. Denillo tells Karen that the DNA samples that they collected will help identify the killer. In support, he gives Karen the address of a support center for parents who have lost a child to violence. Mac tells her that they should attend at least one session. The support group is run by bereaved father Sidney Hughes (Phillip Baker Hall) and his friend Martin (Keith David). At the meeting, Karen and Mac meet various people in similar circumstances, including Albert Gratz (William Mesnik) and Regina Gratz (Rondi Reed), who lost their son to violence. Karen also meets Angel Kosinsky (Charlayne Woodard), a young lesbian whose son, Sean, was killed in a hit-and-run. Karen befriends Angel. While looking for the bathroom, Karen overhears Albert and Regina talking to Sidney -- in a private room -- about something that's causing Regina to feel scared. Sometime down the line, Denillo calls Karen -- the DNA samples have identified Julie's killer as Robert Doob (Kiefer Sutherland), a supermarket deliveryman who has been in and out of jail for most of his life. At the trial, even though it's clear that Robert is guilty, his attorney, Susan Juke (Natalia Nogulich), reveals a technicality -- the defense was promised a sample of the DNA that they could perform their own tests on, and they did not receive it. Judge Arthur Younger (Armin Shimerman) is forced to dismiss the charges against Robert because of the technicality. Karen and Mac are devastated as Robert walks away, a free man. Robert tauntingly says "S-s-s-sorry," dragging out the 's' sound as a way of taunting Karen and Mac. An understandably enraged Mack is coldly restrained when he understandably charges after Robert. Mac is desperate for he and Karen to get back to normal, and although Karen tries, she can't focus until Robert is brought to justice. Karen goes back to the court house, and buys a copy of Robert's arrest package. Though Robert's addresses is colored out with Tipp-Ex out, the County Clerk (Jane Morris) hints that the stuff is easy to wipe off. Karen does so, and she tracks Robert to a mostly Hispanic neighborhood. Karen observes Robert as he lives his life -- annoying his neighbors and viciously harassing stray dogs. Karen keeps a detailed record of Robert's movements, all of which bring her relief and satisfaction, though she's warned by Dolly Green (Beverly D'Angelo), her colleague at the museum, that following Robert around is not a good idea. That doesn't stop Karen. She pursues Robert, while he continues his supermarket-delivering, to a house. There, she observes him having a friendly conversation, in Spanish, with a woman named Maria (Wanda Acuna). After Maria tips him, he leaves -- before urinating in her front garden, while watching Maria from outside the window. As he finishes, he sees Karen, who has been watching him from her car window, and she quickly drives away. Karen goes straight to the police. Denillo states that the information is insufficient, and he tells Karen to stay away from Robert. Denillo then goes to Robert, who is at work, and he warns Robert that if he hears of Robert looking through anymore windows, he's dead. Denillo tells Robert to get out of the city. Desperate for support, Karen goes back to Maria, and warns her about Robert, but due to Maria not being able to speak or understand much English, she is unable to understand what Karen is saying. Maria's husband (Geoffrey Rivas) comes home, and demands that Karen leave. Later that night, at the Support Group, Karen learns that the killer of Gratz's son has been killed in a drive-by shooting, days after being released from prison. Angel invites Karen out to lunch and to the gym the following day. There, Angel tells Karen that the best way to cope with her grief is to just focus on the good times with Megan, which causes Karen to realize that -- all this time -- she's been so fixated on Robert, that she hasn't paid much attention to Megan. At the same time, Megan is in recess at kindergarten, playing in the Wendy house. A Wendy house, also known as a cubby house or play house, is a small toy house usually made of a strong fabric, for children to play in. The name originates from the character Wendy in Peter Pan, since Wendy was injured soon after her arrival in Neverland and had to recuperate in a little house built by Peter and the Lost Boys. Robert -- knowing that Megan is Karen's daughter -- crawls inside the Wendy house, and strikes up a harmless conversation with her, and Megan has no idea who he is. During their conversation, she gives Robert one of her pretend cookies, and he teaches her his crude rhyme -- "tough titty, said the kitty, but the milk's still good." When Karen picks Megan up at the end of the school day, Robert watches them, and Megan points him out to Karen. Karen is horrified as Robert walks up to Karen before whispering in her ear that girls as young as Megan is are not his thing, but he's willing to make an exception, and go after Megan, if Karen doesn't stay out of his neighborhood. Worried for Megan's safety, Karen remembers the Gratzes, and what happened to their son's killer, and she's suspicious that the killer's death may have been planned. At the support group, Karen approaches Sidney and -- remembering what she heard, on her first visit -- pleads with him for help. He's reluctant, but whispers to her to go to a place named Michael's Garage at 7:30 PM. Angel observes them from the other side of the room. Karen does as he says. She goes to Michael's Garage, where she finds Sidney and Martin waiting for her, and she learns that the drive-by shooting was indeed set up by Sidney and Martin. As it turns out, within the support group, there is a secret society of parents, led by Sidney, who kill killers that the system has horribly failed to adequately deal with. Karen demands help. They agree to help her find a weapon, train her, and plan Robert's death, but she has to kill Robert herself. Karen agrees. Unknown to Mac, Karen begins plotting to kill Robert, with the help of Sidney and Martin. She also joins a self-defense class, which helps her gain more independence. As she does that, she manages to rekindle her sex life with Mac, and her relationship with Megan, who is still reeling from losing Julie. Sometime later, Martin admits to Sidney that he's not sure whether Karen is capable of killing Robert. Sidney assures him that Karen will be fine, and he leaves, ready to pick up the gun. Just then, the phone rings. Martin answers, and it's one of his legitimate customers from the garage. Unknown to Martin, the telephone line has been tapped, and a cop is listening to all of the conversations that happen on the phone. Sidney meets with Karen in a restaurant, where he secretly passes the gun to Karen, and reminds her that she does not have to do it. But she makes it clear to him that she's prepared. That evening -- at the support group -- Angel, out of blue, says to her "Don't do it. You'll get caught. I'm telling you this, because I'm your friend." Karen is alarmed, but she says that she has no idea what Angel is talking about. That evening, Mac confronts Karen about learning to use a gun -- he found a card from the business that trains people in how to use guns. The two argue, before Mac suggests that they go on a vacation to help cope with their loss. The next day, Karen goes to see Angel at her house. When she knocks on the door, she's horrified when the door opens to reveal a little boy -- it's Sean (Ross Bagley), Angel's son, and he's alive. Karen recognizes him from the photos Angel showed her. Karen, dismayed, confronts Angel, who gently reveals to Karen that she's an undercover FBI Agent who has been investigating the support group. Angel tells Karen that killing someone is against the law, and that unless it's in self-defense, the police cold-bloodedly won't care why she killed Robert, and, most of all, Karen would end up spending the rest of her life in prison. Angel also adds "What kind of legacy are you leaving your little girl?" Reluctant, Karen is forced to call Sidney, tell him that she can't go through with it, and return to her normal life. Meanwhile, Robert is continuing with his life, delivering groceries. He goes back to Maria's home. This time, he walks into her house, and waits while she gets him his tip. Just after Maria gives Robert the tip, he grabs Maria, throws her against the wall, and forces her onto the table, where he brutally rapes and kills her, just like he did to Julie. Karen is horrified when she learns of the murder. When Karen meets with Denillo at the police station, Karen is horrified even more to learn from Denillo that although Robert has been arrested for it, he's been released for lack of evidence -- there are perfectly plausible reasons for his fingerprints to be around the house, because of him making deliveries to Maria from the supermarket, and he used a condom while raping her. A highly frustrated Karen says to Denillo, "You can't catch him! You can't punish him! You can't protect anyone else! You're completely useless!" And then Karen storms out. Karen decides, despite Angel's warning, to go back to her original plan -- only this time, alone. Karen knows that the system won't do anything about Robert, and that gives her absolutely no choice but to do it herself. As Mac and Megan get ready to leave for the vacation that was planned, Karen tells Mac that she needs to stay late at the museum, and sort out an error at work. Mac agrees to drive ahead with Megan, and for Karen to meet with him the next day. Once they have gone, Karen goes back to Robert's home, and after finding Megan's pretend cookie, Karen leaves her baseball cap there, so Robert will know that she's been there. Later that night, Robert finds the hat, and decides to teach Karen a lesson, not knowing that he's falling right into Karen's trap. As Mac and Megan are driving to their destination, Megan mutters the saying, "tough titty said the kitty, but the milk's still good." Mac asks her where she learned that, and Megan tells him that she learned it from the man that mommy watches on the video -- meaning when Karen would watch Robert, as he was arrested, on the news. Mac immediately realizes that Karen is in danger, and he turns the car around to go back home. Meanwhile, Robert forces his way into the house, storms up the stairs, and sees the shower running, with the curtain drawn and a figure behind it. Robert smiles and pulls the curtain open, only to see a towel hanging on rail, creating the image of a person. Embarrassed, he turns around -- only to be confronted by Karen, who is holding a six-shot revolver. Karen angrily says "Sorry to disappoint you." Robert says "What are you gonna do? Shoot me?" Karen says "You broke into my house with the intent to do me bodily harm. The law says I have the right to protect myself." Robert sarcastically says "What? You want me to say I'm sorry? It could've been anybody. I don't even remember what she looked like. It's nothing personal." Karen says "She was seventeen years old. She was five-foot two. She had brown eyes. Her name was Julie. She was my daughter." Robert tauntingly says "She was a great ffffuck," dragging out the 'f' sound as he says it. Robert lunges at Karen, and they struggle with each other. A shot from Karen's gun hits the ceiling, leaving five shots left in the gun, and Karen stumbles down the stairs as the gun drops out of her hand. As Robert advances on her, he says "Like I said, it's nothing personal." Karen quickly grabs the gun, and says "It's very personal." In self defense, she shoots Robert, who is on the stairs. Now there are four shots left in the gun. When Robert tries to go down the stairs after Karen, she fires the gun's last four bullets into Robert, killing Robert in self-defense. Robert's body rolls down the stairs, and comes to a stop on top of Karen. The police are called, and they, along with Mac, arrive. The police take Robert's body away in a body bag. Denillo tells Karen that he's not fooled, and that he knows that she lured Robert to the house, with the intent of making him pay for raping and killing Julie and Maria. Karen, knowing that there's no way that Denillo can prove it, says "Prove it." Denillo, who also knows that he can't prove it, tells his colleagues that it's a clear case of self-defense. Karen and Mac embrace each other.