movieId: 3445
title: Eyes of Laura Mars
year: 1978
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0077530/
ratingValue: 
directors: Irvin Kershner
actors: Faye Dunaway, Tommy Lee Jones, Brad Dourif, Rene Auberjonois, Raul Julia, Frank Adonis, Lisa Taylor, Darlanne Fluegel, Rose Gregorio, Bill Boggs

synopsis:
Laura Mars ( Faye Dunaway ) is a glamorous New York City fashion photographer who specializes in photographs featuring stylized violence, which attract controversy from the press and feminists who feel her work is exploitative. The night before the release of her photography book The Eyes of Mars, Laura has a dream about an assailant entering a woman's apartment, which she observes from the first-person perspective of the intruder. The following night at the book release party, Laura is notified that her photo editor, Doris, ( Meg Mundy ) has been found murdered, her eyes gouged with an ice pick. Also during the party, Laura encounters detective John Neville, ( Tommy Lee Jones ) who criticizes her work for its content, not realizing she is the artist. Shortly thereafter, during a photo-shoot in Columbus Circle, Laura has another disturbing vision of a woman being stabbed to death outside her apartment, and stumbles upon the crime scene while passing by on the street. Laura informs police she witnessed the crime, but is unable to rationalize how. She later learns that the victim, Elaine, ( Rose Gregorio ) has been romantically involved with her ex-husband Michael, ( Raul Julia ) a writer who had been living in San Francisco but returned to New York. Neville who is now in charge of the case, shows Laura unpublished police photographs of unsolved murders that very closely mirror Laura's fashion shoots. Laura's visions continue, including visions of the killer stalking her and continuing to murder those around her. While developing photographs in her darkroom, Laura has another vision of her models Lulu ( Darlanne Fluegel ) and Michelle ( Lisa Taylor ) being brutally murdered. After attending Lulu and Michelle's funerals, Laura finds herself growing close to Neville, and the two begin a romance. He gives her a gun for her own protection. Meanwhile, police consider Laura's driver Tommy, ( Brad Dourif ) an ex-convict, and Michael to be their prime suspects in the string of serial killings. While attending a birthday party for her agent Donald, ( Rene Auberjonois ) Laura receives a phone call from a drunken Michael, who is threatening suicide. Donald urges her against helping him, but Laura leaves the party. While driving to meet Michael, Laura has a vision of Donald being murdered by the killer, which causes her to crash her car. Later, Neville is informed that photographs of the murdered models have been found in Tommy's apartment. Tommy agrees to talk to Neville and clear his name, but Neville reveals that one of his playing cards was found under Donald's body. Tommy flees and attacks other police officers, whilst Neville pursues him on foot. Tommy is then shot by another cop during the chase and is killed. At her apartment, Laura is contacted by Neville who tells her it's all over, advising her to pack a bag so they can go away together. Whilst packing, Laura is affected by a vision of the killer murdering Michael. The killer attempts to break in through her front door, but Laura deadbolts it before the killer can enter. Upon hearing her distress, Neville (who had been on his way to meet her) breaks through her balcony window. He proceeds to tell Laura that Tommy was the killer and begins an elaborate explanation of his motivations and backstory. Knowing Tommy well, Laura recognizes this as a lie. Neville, still talking about the killer, uses "I". Laura realizes that Neville is the killer. Neville details more of his own story, slipping between multiple personalities. When the violent personality tries to kill Laura, his more sensitive personality reasserts dominance. He takes her hand, which holds the gun he gave her, and asks her to kill him. Distraught, she does so before calling the police.