movieId: 71
title: Fair Game
year: 1995
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0113010/
ratingValue: 
directors: Andrew Sipes
actors: William Baldwin, Cindy Crawford, Steven Berkoff, Christopher McDonald, Miguel Sandoval, Johann Carlo, Salma Hayek, John Bedford Lloyd, Olek Krupa, Jenette Goldstein

synopsis:
Kathryn "Kate" McQuean (Cindy Crawford) is a Miami lawyer who, in the course of a divorce proceeding, attempts to seize a 157-foot freighter docked off the Florida coast in lieu of unpaid alimony. The freighter, which is owned by criminal Emilio Juantorena (Miguel Sandoval) (Walter Hollenbach (Dan Hedaya), Juantorena's attorney), is the current base of operations of Ilya Pavel Kazak (Steven Berkoff), a former KGB agent who has become an international money laundering expert, and has also become the leader of a group of rogue KGB members, including Stefan (Gustav Vintas), Leonide "Hacker" Volkov (Paul Dillon), Navigator (Marc Macaulay), Rosa (Jenette Goldstein) and Zhukov (Olek Krupa).
Kazak is using the boat to physically cut into undersea internet cables of the US, so KGB can listen in freely on all the traffic. When Kate is unintentionally hit by a stray bullet, Miami detective Max Kirkpatrick (William Baldwin) is assigned to the case. Rita (Salma Hayek) is Max's ex-girlfriend and has recently kicked him out of her apartment. Then an attempt is made on Kate's life by Kazak (Her entire apartment blows up, but she survives as she was standing on the balcony and gets thrown into the water below due to the force of the blast), who - after killing Juantorena - assembles his team into tracking and killing Kate; Max then becomes her protector. Kate, Max, and two of his colleagues stay at a hotel. They order pizza, but Volkov traces the order via credit card, and Rosa and two henchmen infiltrate the hotel and kill Max's colleagues. Max manages to kill the whole hit squad (except Rosa) and he and Kate then leave.
Max contacts Jodi Kirkpatrick (Johann Carlo), Max's cousin who is a forensics specialist, and asks about the 33-marking shell which he found at the hotel during the attack.
After Max contacts his superior, Lt. Meyerson (Christopher McDonald), FBI agents are sent to escort them. The "agents" turn out to be henchmen working for Kazak, and Max's partner and long-time friend Detective Louis Aragon (John Bedford Lloyd) is killed in the process. Max and Kate head to a hotel, where Kate again uses her credit card, which Max tracks. Jodi calls Max and says the shell belongs to the KGB. This particular group is the Navy seals of the KGB. They are into electronic surveillance. They work off Russian spy ships. Kazak calls the hotel room directly and offers max $500k to surrender Kate. Max and Kate manage to escape just before Kazak and his men arrive. Max activates his cell phone and puts it in a trailer logging hogs.
After killing some of Kazak's men, Max and Kate travel throughout Florida, trying to avoid Kazak and find out why he wants Kate dead. On the way, Kate uses a computer cafe to download files from her computer and fax the info on Emilio to Jodi, as Max believes Emilio might have some Russian connection, which might explain all this. Kate explains to Max that Emilio got immunity in a Federal prosecution case for bank fraud, but she was hounding him for a divorce settlement, by getting his freighter boat, which is worth $200K. However, their jeep breaks down on a freeway and they call a tow truck to come pick them up. Volkov and Stefan show up to kill them, while Kazak splits from them to deal with Max's cousin Jodi (he got the fax number from the cafe which Kate used), who has been feeding them information regarding Kazak and his past activities in Cuba. Kazak kills Jodi after entering her office.
Kate and Max are forced to run with the tow truck while their jeep is still hooked onto it. After a long chase and gunfight, Kate steps hard on the brakes while Max steers the wheel of the truck, unhooking their car and causing it to crash into Volkov's and Stefan's SUV, killing both of them. Regardless, Kazak has kidnapped Kate (His men figure out that there was a freight train that passed near the interstate at the time when Kate and Max killed Volkov and Stefan. Max is shot and thrown off the train) and taken her to the freighter.
One of Kate's clients is the ex-wife of Emilio Juantorena, and she is trying to repossess the boat to pay for her divorce settlement. She stumbled on something about the ship and is the main reason why Kazak and his crew put a target on Kate. Kazak was using the taps to steal funds from other illegal Russian accounts which held billions of dollars, which he had info on as a KGB officer. Once the tap is complete, Kazak will transfer the money and will blow up the boat. Max had followed them using navigation charts in found in a car off the railway tracks used by Kazak's men. Max gets near the boat and calls Kazak over the wireless. Rosa and Zhukov are sent to kill Max.
They accidentally kill the Navigator and Max shoots both of them. Rosa has a bulletproof vest on, and Max only kills her after a long fight. Max then boards the freighter in an attempt to rescue Kate. Max and Kate blow up the freighter, killing Kazak. They jump off of the boat just in time to watch it blow up and sink. They climb aboard the boat Max used to reach the freighter and start to kiss passionately. As the sun sets, they ride off together.