movieId: 4593
title: Family Business
year: 1989
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0097328/
ratingValue: 
directors: Sidney Lumet
actors: Sean Connery, Dustin Hoffman, Matthew Broderick, Rosanna DeSoto, Janet Carroll, Victoria Jackson, Bill McCutcheon, Deborah Rush, Marilyn Cooper, Salem Ludwig

synopsis:
Jessie McMullen (Sean Connery) is a Scotch-Irish American widower who emigrated with his Sicilian wife to New York in September 1946. A lovable rogue, incorrigible womanizer and tough guy, Jessie is proud of his criminal past and lifestyle. Jessie raised his son Vito (Dustin Hoffman) to follow in his footsteps. He made Vito be the lookout when he stole a Christmas tree when Vito was just 7 years old and made him an accessory when he stole toys from a toy shop when Vito was 12. Vito had dozens of such stories and as a result, did not think highly of Jessie at all. Vito went straight at 21 when his son Adam was born. Vito now runs a thriving wholesale Twelfth Avenue meat packing warehouse and has left his criminal past behind him. Vito is now married to Elaine (Rosanna DeSoto). Vito became ashamed of his family's criminal past. He went into a legitimate business, married his middle-class Hebrew sweetheart and has tried to raise his son Adam right, which in his mind means keeping young Adam (Matthew Broderick) away from his criminally minded yet charming grandfather. Little does Vito know that this strategy has backfired, the mystery surrounding Jessie, coupled with his strict educational upbringing has caused Adam to idolize his grandfather and romanticize his exciting lifestyle. Now that Adam is grown up (22 years old), he is in college with a scientific scholarship and seemingly has a bright future ahead of him. However, six months before graduating he drops out complaining he was already "being put on a pension plan and they had my whole future mapped out". Jessie is arrested for assaulting an off-duty policeman at a bar. Jessie uses his one call to contact Adam and asks him to bail him out. Adam borrows $800 from Vito to help bail out Jessie. In court Jessie claims that the officer insulted the native American heritage of his mother. The prosecuting lawyer argues that the Jessie's retaliation caused 18 stitches to the face, a broken nose and a wired jaw. Bail is set at $5000, but a cash bail bond of $500 is deemed acceptable. Adam unveils a scheme for a burglary in order to impress his grandfather Jessie, and this leaves Vito shocked and disappointed. Adam tells Jessie that his ex-professor from Harvard is a Chinese-American, and he confided in Adam about a scam which was worth $1 million. Vito warns his son not to pursue this crime and even slaps his face in a bar to drive home the point. Vito says that even he followed a life of crime and spent 27 months in jail because of the same. Jessie argues that Vito only got caught when he went out on his own. Vito pursues Adam and tries to make him realize that he was given every opportunity to make a better life for himself, and that he does not need a life of crime. This was a choice that Vito never had to begin with. This pushes Adam even closer to his grandfather, who can't wait to take a shot at a million-dollar payday, and is eager to re-enlist his reformed son Vito, into the scheme which he calls "the sweetest deal of my life". Vito is distressed but Jessie is determined to rope him in. The more he hears about the scheme, the more tempted Vito is to give up the safe middle class lifestyle he has carved out for himself and have a return to the wild days of his youth under Jessie. So, the three generations of McMullens embark on one great criminal adventure with Vito begrudgingly saying yes on the principle he is there to watch out for Adam along the way. The plan to steal valuable scientific research from a lab, backfires horribly when having seemingly pulled off the heist successfully, they realize Adam has forgotten the logbook which is a vital prerequisite, if they are to be paid the reward by its suitors. Adam dashes back into the building to retrieve the important document, in his rush he accidentally sets off an alarm on his way out. Vito and Jessie can only watch helplessly from afar as Adam is captured by the police. But before he is captured, he manages to throw the logbook towards the other two.
Vito is heartbroken and tearful, but Jessie holds their composure and the two safely escape the scene with the stolen research and logbook. Vito and Jessie hire an expensive Schyster lawyer for Adam's defense but are told the only way for Adam to avoid a 15-year sentence is to give up his two mystery accomplishes.
Upon discovering Adam is in trouble Vito's wife instructs him to give himself up and Jessie in order to get Adam a reduced sentence. Discovering that the vials contained nothing but water and that the scientific research they stole had been faked, Jessie tracks down Adam's former professor Jimmy Chiu (BD Wong) who had double crossed Adam by selling him the robbery idea and makes him pay.
In the meanwhile, a crestfallen Vito gives in to his wife suggestion he give himself and his father up, and rats Jessie out, as well as giving himself up.
A judge finds all three McMullens to be at fault, but after generously placing both Vito and his son on probation, he throws the book at Jessie, giving him a 15 year sentence tantamount to a life sentence. Adam visits his grandfather devotedly in jail while banning Vito from his life. Vito's explanations that he did what he did, he did for Adam's own good, fall on deaf ears as Adam calls him a "piece of garbage" and lambastes him for "ratting out his own father".
Jessie dies in prison, as Vito arrives minutes too late to say a last goodbye as the body is being carted away as Vito makes a last dash in vain to intercept the body on its way to the morgue. He falls just short as the prison gates shut behind him and he breaks down in tears as melodramatic music plays in the background. Vito and Adam eventually make their peace months later. Vito agrees with Adam that the most fun they have had as a family was the caper. Together they give Jessie a grand sendoff.