movieId: 3159
title: Fantasia 2000
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120910/
ratingValue: 
directors: James Algar, Gaëtan Brizzi, Paul Brizzi, Hendel Butoy, Francis Glebas, Eric Goldberg, Don Hahn, Pixote Hunt
actors: Steve Martin, Itzhak Perlman, Quincy Jones, Bette Midler, James Earl Jones, Penn Jillette, Teller, James Levine, Wayne Allwine, Angela Lansbury

synopsis:
Symphony No. 5 by Ludwig Van Beethoven. The show begins with the sound of an orchestra tuning and Deems Taylor's introduction from Fantasia. Panels showing various segments from Fantasia fly in outer space and form the set and stage for an orchestra. Musicians take their seats and tune up as animators and artists draw at their desks before James Levine approaches the conductor's podium and signals the beginning of the piece. In the segment proper, abstract patterns and shapes that resemble hundreds of colorful triangle-shaped butterflies in dozens of magenta, reds, oranges, yellows, greens, turquoises, blues, indigo, violets, purples, pinks, grays, whites, and browns in various shades, tints, tones, and hues explore a world of light and darkness whilst being pursued by a swarm of dark black pentagon or hexagon-shaped bats. The world is ultimately conquered by light and color. Beethoven's Fifth is about triumph itself, about every hard-won victory there has ever been or ever will be. It's a story of despair, Beethoven's deafness, and establishing the will to go on. The most prominent mood, as presented at the Symphony's end, is one of hope, optimism, and triumph. This mood contrasts with Symphony's beginning which communicates a darker, almost angry mood. Pines of Rome by Ottorino Respighi. The poem is the Italian composer's tribute to scenes around his country's capital, some contemporary and some recalling the glory of the Roman Empire. But when the Disney animation team heard the piece, they imagined it in a very different way.
A family of humpback whales are able to fly. The calf is separated from his parents when it goes playing with a pack of seagulls. The calf then becomes trapped in an iceberg. The calf is not able to find a way out and the iceberg has ice spikes everywhere. Eventually, he finds his way out with his mother's help. The family join a larger pod of whales, who fly and frolic through the clouds to emerge into outer space. This is followed by an introduction from by Steve Martin, who gives a brief history on Fantasia's original purpose, after which Itzhak Perlman introduces the segment proper. Steve claims that many of the musicians are playing on the program for the very first time after taking a 2-week instruments course with him at his academy. There are 3 kinds of music on the Fantasia program. First which tells a definite story. Then there is the kind that has no specific plot but does paint a series of definite pictures. Finally, there is music that exists for its own sake. The animated medium aims to replicate the abstract pictures and images that an audience would imagine if they were sitting in a theatre listening to the live performance. Rhapsody in Blue by George Gershwin. Set in New York City in the 1930s and designed in the style of Al Hirschfeld's known caricatures of the time, the story follows four individuals who wish for a better life. Duke is a construction worker who dreams of becoming a jazz drummer; Joe is a down-on-his-luck unemployed man who wishes he could get a job. Rachel is a little girl who wants to spend time with her busy parents instead of being shuttled around by her governess; and John is a harried rich husband who longs for a simpler, more fun life. The segment ends with all four getting their wish, though their stories interact with each other's without any of them knowing. Introduced by Quincy Jones with pianist Ralph Grierson. The word "rhapsody" in the title means that the piece was free-form (a musical exploration of a variety of contrasting moods), and the solo piano part gives the false impression of spontaneous improvisation. The piece centers around five main musical themes - Ritornello, Train, Stride, Shuffle, and Love - that are repeated and expanded in a call-and-response style between sections of the orchestra. Piano Concerto No. 2, Allegro, Opus 102 by Dmitri Shostakovich. Based on the fairy tale "The Steadfast Tin Soldier" by Hans Christian Andersen, a broken toy soldier with one leg falls in love with a toy ballerina and protects her from an evil jack-in-the-box. Unlike the original story, this version has a happy ending. Introduced by Bette Midler featuring pianist Yefim Bronfman.
It is a playful and cheerful piece, composed as a 19th birthday gift for his son Maxim, who also premiered it. It is known for its youthful vitality, wit, and lyrical beauty, contrasting with some of Shostakovich's more somber works. The Carnival of the Animals (Le Carnival Des Animaux), Finale by Camille Saint-Saëns. A flock of flamingos tries to force a slapstick member, who enjoys playing with a yo-yo, to engage in the flock's "dull" routines. Introduced by James Earl Jones with animator Eric Goldberg. The Sorcerer's Apprentice (Reprise) by Paul Dukas. Based on the 1797 poem "Der Zauberlehrling" by Goethe, the segment is the only one featured in both Fantasia and Fantasia 2000. It tells the story of Mickey Mouse, an apprentice of sorcerer Yen Sid who attempts some of his master's magic tricks before knowing how to control them. Introduced by Penn & Teller rather than using an archived recording of Deems Taylor introducing the segment as in the original film. The scene where Mickey shakes hands with Levine's predecessor Leopold Stokowski is like that in the original film but Mickey is now voiced by Wayne Allwine instead of Walt Disney. This leads directly to the intro for Pomp and Circumstance, with Donald Duck and Daisy Duck voiced by Tony Anselmo and Russi Taylor, respectively. Pomp and Circumstance - Marches 1, 2, 3 and 4 by Sir Edward Elgar. Based on the story of Noah's Ark from the Book of Genesis, Donald Duck is Noah's assistant and Daisy Duck is Donald's girlfriend. Donald is given the task of gathering the animals to the Ark, and misses, loses, and reunites with Daisy in the process. Introduced by James Levine. Firebird Suite 1919 Version by Igor Stravinsky. A Sprite is awoken by her companion, an elk, and accidentally wakes a fiery spirit of destruction in a nearby volcano who destroys the forest and seemingly the Sprite. The Sprite survives and the elk encourages her to restore the forest to its normal state. Introduced by Angela Lansbury.