movieId: 390
title: Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill!
year: 1965
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0059170/
ratingValue: 
directors: Russ Meyer
actors: Tura Satana, Haji, Lori Williams, Ray Barlow, Sue Bernard, Michael Finn, Dennis Busch, Stuart Lancaster, Paul Trinka

synopsis:
Varla (Tura Satana) Rosie (Haji) and Billie (Lori Williams) are three buxom go-go dancers who are first seen racing their sport cars through the desert of southern California. The tough Varla is their de faco leader, Rosie is her lover and follows her orders without question. Billie is their 'third-wheel' who always puts up a fuss, but she hangs out with the other two women just for kicks. Tommy (Ray Barlow) a young man from a car club, and his girlfriend Linda (Susan Bernard) drive up to do some trials. Varla challenges him to a race. She cheats and almost kills him, and then takes his stopwatch from Linda. Varla and Tommy have a brutal fight, but his punches are no match for her karate chops. She breaks his back and kills him. The three women kidnap Linda so that she will not report them to the police. They gag and drug her. The three women decide to leave the area. After stopping at a remote gas station, the attendant (Mickey Foxx) tells the three women about a miserly old handicapped man (Stuart Lancaster), who lives with two sons named Kirk (Paul Trinka) and the brawny but imbecilic Vegetable (Dennis Busch) on a nearby ranch. Varla is intrigues to learn that the old man has received a huge settlement after a train accident that left him confided to a wheelchair and that he keeps his money hidden somewhere on the ranch. Varla, Rosie and Billie go to the run-down ranch to search for the money. They devise a phony story to explain why Linda is all tied up. They will tell the old man that Linda's boyfriend was killed in a car accident, she flipped out, and her wealthy, high-society parents hired the three of them to bring their daughter back without publicity. Kirk catches Varla peering in the window just as his father and brother and confronts her. She tells them that she and her friends thought the ranch was deserted and stopped to use the water tank. The old man is immediately suspicious, but being a lecher, he doesn't ask them to leave. He invites the women to have lunch. However, the old man tells Vegetable that there is a lot of room in the desert in which to bury the women... after they plan to have their way and kill them. The straight Billie loves Vegetable's well-toned body and muscles. While she seduces him, she leaves Linda and the old man alone. The old man makes a play for Linda, who runs away into the desert. She stops a truck along a rural road, but it is Kirk. He doesn't believe Linda's story about the murder of her boyfriend and her abduction by the three other women. Kirk returns Linda to the house. In private, Varla slaps Linda many times and she then warns Billie not to allow Linda to try to escape again. Everyone gathers for lunch. Rosie is upset to see Varla flirt with Kirk, hoping to get him to reveal where the old man's money is hidden. Varla and Kirk go off to make love, while Rosie can barely stand spying on them. When the drunk Billie passes out, Linda again tries to make a run for it. The old man and Vegetable give chase in their truck and catch her. The old man hopes to rape Linda, but she reminds him of the young woman who caused his accident on the train. But Kirk and Varla drive up in Varla's car and prevent the old man from having his way with Linda. Kirk, who now realizes that Varla is a wicked person, allows Linda to escape as she walks back through the desert. Varla drives back to the house. She tells Rosie and Billie they must go after and kill Linda and the three other men so they can search for the money. When Billie refuses to go along with her plan, Varla kills her with Rosie's knife. Vegetable cries when he finds Billie's dead body. Varla and Rosie run down the old man in their respective cars. It is there, that the money falls out of his wheelchair. After pocketing as much cash as she can, Varla orders Rosie to retrieve the knife. When Rosie asks Vegetable for the knife, he stabs her to death with it for killing Billie. Enraged, Varla runs down Vegetable in the old man's pickup truck, but he is too strong to crush against a fence. Varla drives off and finds Kirk and Linda in the desert. She heads them off, gets out of the truck and almost karate chops him to death. But Linda gets in the truck and runs her over. With Varla finally dead, Linda and Kirk hug and drive away.