movieId: 4504
title: Feds
year: 1988
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0095145/
ratingValue: 
directors: Daniel Goldberg
actors: Rebecca De Mornay, Mary Gross, Ken Marshall, Fred Thompson, Larry Cedar, Raymond Singer, James Luisi, Rex Ryon, Norman Bernard, Don Stark

synopsis:
Although vastly under-qualified, former U.S. Marine Elizabeth "Ellie" DeWitt (Rebecca De Morney) leaves her small town to pursue a career with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in Washington, D.C. After enrolling in the training academy, she meets her roommate, an uptight academic over-achiever named Janis Zuckerman (Mary Gross). Over the course of their first week, Janis is unable to assert herself in the physical exercises, while Ellie struggles with written aptitude tests. One afternoon, Ellie takes Janis to buy a gun and the two witness a bank robbery. As the criminals flee, Ellie shoots out the tires of their van and holds them at gunpoint until police arrive. FBI Academy Director Bill Belecki (Fred Dalton Thompson) reprimands Ellie and Janis for breaking standard protocol and puts them on probation as a warning. When Janis fails her handcuffing examination, she packs her belongings and threatens to quit. Hoping they can work together, Ellie offers to help Janis with target practice in exchange for tutoring sessions. Over time, both women improve, and Ellie's new academic confidence attracts the interest of a handsome but arrogant trainee named Brent Shepard (Ken Marhsall). However, Ellie shuns Brent's advances when he insults Janis and the other under performing recruits. Defying his expectations, Janis aggressively tackles Brent during a handcuffing exercise. While studying real-life case files for an assignment, Janis notices an anomaly in the questioning of a key witness in an unsolved robbery. Brent and the other members of their study group dismiss her concern, but Ellie suggests they investigate. After tracking down the witness, Janis and Ellie learn the identity of a probable suspect in Baltimore, Maryland, who confesses to the crime. Impressed by their initiative, Bill Belecki gives them top marks and advances them to the final recruiting round. While out celebrating, Janis gets drunk and aggressively flirts with a U.S. Navy sailor, but Ellie pulls her away. Shortly after returning to their dorm, Belecki calls the remaining recruits to begin their final test, in which they must diffuse a simulated terrorist attack. Although still slightly drunk, Janis and Ellie question Brent's leadership of the team and form their own squad with a bookish trainee named Howard Butz. Now in competition, Howard misdirects Brent's team, allowing Janis and Ellie to find the terrorists and successfully complete the exercise. In the final scene at graduation, Ellie and Janis are honored with a special merit award for their achievements.