movieId: 168
title: First Knight
year: 1995
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0113071/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jerry Zucker
actors: Sean Connery, Richard Gere, Julia Ormond, Ben Cross, Liam Cunningham, Christopher Villiers, Valentine Pelka, Colin McCormack, Ralph Ineson, John Gielgud

synopsis:
King Arthur (Sean Connery) of Camelot, victorious from his wars, has dedicated his reign to promoting justice and peace and now wishes to marry. However, Malagant (Ben Cross), a Knight of the Round Table, desires the throne for himself and rebels. Malagant leaves Camelot with hatred in his
heart. Some people supported Malagant and wanted the spoils of war, and others remained loyal to Arthur.
Lancelot (Richard Gere) is a vagabond and skilled swordsman, dueling in small villages for money. Lancelot attributes his skill to his lack of concern whether he lives or dies. Lancelot defeats a villager named Mark (Paul Kynman) in one of his shows, and Mark becomes his student, impressed with his skills. Lancelot says that one has to know every move of their opponent before they make it, and wait for that one moment in the fight, where they can win it. Guinevere (Julia Ormond), the ruler of Leonesse, decides to marry Arthur partly out of admiration and partly for security against Malagant, who is shown raiding a Leonesse village. Malagant declares that he burned the village down for being loyal to Leonesse and for killing 3 of his men. Malagant has destroyed 3 Leonesse villages in less than a week.
While traveling, Lancelot chances by Guinevere's carriage on the way to Camelot and helps spoil Malagant's ambush meant to kidnap her. Guinevere's entourage is attacked by 2 separate waves of Malagant's forces. The first wave draws away some of their forces, and the 2nd wave attacks and takes control of Guinevere's carriage. As the carriage is ridden away, Lancelot follows. Guinevere had jumped from the carriage in the middle of the forest and was hiding from Malagant's soldiers when Lancelot arrives. Lancelot kills the attackers and takes Guinevere back to her entourage.
He falls in love with Guinevere, who refuses his advances by saying that she is promised to be married. Though Lancelot urges her to follow her heart, Guinevere remains bound by her duty. Lancelot promises never to kiss Guinevere unless she asks him to. She is subsequently reunited with her escort. Arthur receives Guinevere at the borders of Camelot and escorts his Queen into the city. Guinevere is given a royal welcome and Arthur is nothing but charming and generous to the new lady.
Lancelot, meanwhile, meets Arthur's stableman Peter (Stuart Bunce) in the forest and rescues a mare that was supposed to be a gift for Guinevere. Peter invites Lancelot to Camelot. Later, Lancelot arrives in Camelot and successfully navigates an obstacle course on the prospect of a kiss from Guinevere, though he instead kisses her hand. He also wins an audience with her husband-to-be, Arthur. Impressed by Lancelot's courage and struck by his recklessness and freewheeling, Arthur shows him the Round Table which symbolizes a life of service and brotherhood and warns Lancelot that a man "who fears nothing is a man who loves nothing." Arthur meets Guinevere and offers to release her from the engagement and promises that Camelot would protect Leonesse regardless. Guinevere professes her love for Arthur and says that she wants to marry him.
Arthur himself hadn't married so far and finds himself drawn towards the genuine love of Guinevere. Arthur invites Malagant at his spot at the round table at Camelot. Malagant claims that Guinevere's escort was attacked by lawless bandits of the forest and says that this is the reason why Leonesse must be annexed. To bring law enforcement to the lands of Leonesse. When Guinevere refuses, Malagant asks Arthur to split Leonesse between themselves. Arthur refuses to let the people of Leonesse to be enslaved.
Malagant is thrown out of the Round Table, and Arthur prepares Camelot for war. That night, Malagant's henchmen arrive at Camelot and kidnap Guinevere. She is tied up and carried off to Malagant's headquarters, where she is held hostage. Lancelot watches the kidnapping and follows them to their hideout in the forest. Lancelot poses as a messenger to Malagant only to escape with Guinevere and return her to Camelot.
Once again, Lancelot tries to win her heart, but is unsuccessful. On the return journey, it is revealed that Lancelot was orphaned and rendered homeless after bandits attacked his village and has been wandering ever since. In gratitude, Arthur offers Lancelot a higher calling in life as a Knight of the Round Table. In the middle of the protests of the other Knights (who are suspicious of his station), and of Guinevere (who struggles with her feelings for him), Lancelot accepts and takes Malagant's place at the Table, saying he has found something to care about.
Arthur and Guinevere are subsequently wedded. However, a messenger from Leonesse arrives, with news that Malagant has invaded. Arthur leads his troops to Leonesse and successfully defeats Malagant's forces. Lancelot wins the respect of the other Knights with his prowess in battle. He also learns to embrace Arthur's philosophy, moved by the plight of villagers. Lancelot feels guilty about his feelings for the queen and loyalty to Arthur and in private announces his departure to her. She cannot bear the thought of him leaving and asks him for a kiss, which turns into a passionate embrace, just in time for the king to interrupt. Though Guinevere claims to love both Arthur and Lancelot - albeit in different ways - the two are charged with treason.
The open trial in the great square of Camelot is interrupted by a surprise invasion by Malagant, ready to burn Camelot and kill Arthur if he does not swear fealty. Instead, Arthur commands his subjects to fight, and Malagant's men shoot him with crossbows. A battle between Malagant's men and Camelot's soldiers and citizens ensues, and Lancelot and Malagant face off. Disarmed, Lancelot seizes Arthur's fallen sword and kills Malagant. The people of Camelot win the battle, but Arthur dies of his wounds. On his deathbed, he asks Lancelot to "take care of her for me" - referring to both Camelot and Guinevere. The film closes with a funeral raft carrying Arthur's body floating out to sea, which is set aflame