movieId: 1457
title: Fools Rush In
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119141/
ratingValue: 
directors: Andy Tennant
actors: Matthew Perry, Salma Hayek, Jon Tenney, Carlos Gómez, Tomas Milian, Siobhan Fallon Hogan, John Bennett Perry, Stanley DeSantis, Suzanne Snyder, Anne Betancourt

synopsis:
Alex Whitman (Matthew Perry), a New York City project manager aka architect, is sent to Las Vegas to supervise the construction of a nightclub that his firm has been hired to build. He is a strait-laced WASP-ish man and meets Isabel Fuentes (Salma Hayek), a free-spirited Mexican-American woman living in Las Vegas within her community of Mexican culture and family. After a chance encounter one night in Las Vegas, their immediate romance leads to a sexual experience that ends with Isabel leaving abruptly in the morning. Three months after the one night stand, Isabel comes to Alex's doorstep with news of her pregnancy from their initial encounter. After a couple hours of effortless connection and romance, Alex and Isabel elope and begin their lives together. Their relationship begins with ease, but quickly becomes difficult when they are faced with the reality of coming from different lives and cultures. The marital problems they face include: difficulty getting approval and support from their prospective families, differences in their priorities between family and work, and contrasting plans of living arrangements for their premature family. After they both agree on a plan of remaining in Las Vegas for the remainder of their pregnancy before moving to New York City, Alex's plans change when he gets offered the job of his dreams that would require him to move back sooner. Alex lies to Isabel about his plan for as long as he can before she discovers. After needing a trip to the hospital, Isabel decides to lie to Alex when he visits her and tells him that she had a miscarriage and ends the relationship. Isabel undergoes the rest of her pregnancy in central Mexico with her family as Alex lives an unfulfilled life of work in New York. After he attempts to be open to the signs of destiny, Alex discovers that he truly loves Isabel and wants to be with her. In central Mexico, her great-grandmother, who only speaks Spanish, reveals to his surprise that Isabel loves Alex. After traveling to Mexico then Las Vegas, he finds Isabel and discovers she is still pregnant while confessing his love to her. She suddenly goes into labor and gives birth to their daughter along the Hoover Dam during Alex's confession. Soon after, Alex and Isabel remarry with both their families present at the Grand Canyon and begin again the rest of their lives together.