movieId: 3791
title: Footloose
year: 1984
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0087277/
ratingValue: 
directors: Herbert Ross
actors: Kevin Bacon, Lori Singer, John Lithgow, Dianne Wiest, Chris Penn, Sarah Jessica Parker, John Laughlin, Elizabeth Gorcey, Frances Lee McCain, Jim Youngs

synopsis:
In the beginning of the opening credits, dancing feet are shown. Ren McCormick is a Chicago native who moves to Beaumont Utah with his mom so he can live with the runs aunt and uncle when he's at church, he meets the Reverend Moore and his wife Vi and their pretty daughter Ariel who goes against her father's strictly religious and his recklessness. Ren becomes friends with another teen boy named Willard and he learns that the school as well as the town has band dancing and rock music because they believe it is sinful and against the Christian Bible. Ren falls for a pretty girl named Ariel, which angers her boyfriend, Chuck. He challenges, Ren to a game of chicken involving tractors and Ren wins the challenge, but this is only because of his shoelace getting caught on the foot pedal. Reverend Moore does not allow Ariel to see Ren anymore, but Ren drives Willard and Ariel and her friend Rusty to a alcoholic bar pass a state line to go dancing. Willard, who doesn't know how to dance, gets jealous and gets into a fight with another man dancing with Rusty. Later on the drive home, Ariel describes how five years earlier, her older brother was killed in a car accident after a night of drinking and dancing. Their father persuaded the town council to have strict anti-liquor laws and anti-drug laws and anti-dancing laws. Ren decides to challenge these laws so the high school can hold a senior prom. Willard gets embarrassed that he can't dance, until Ren teaches him. Chuck then confront Ariel about her feelings to Ren and gets into a physical fight with her before breaking up, Ren helps Aerial hide the physical assault before going home. Later, somebody throws a brick with the words "Burn in Hell" through a window at Ren's house, but his uncle criticize Ren's outspoken behavior, Ethel tells Ren that his actions had cost her the job she had and he should stand up for the way he believes is right. Ariel gives Ren a Christian Bible with segments outlined in it that talk about the positives of dancing. Ren goes to the town council to positively advocate the anti-dancing law. He reads several Bible verses. Stating how the scripture does indeed allow dancing and celebration, although Reverend Moore is moved, the council still votes against Ren. Vi who supports this, tells Reverend Moore that he cannot be everybody's father and then he's not really one, including for Ariel. Reverend Moore does not change his mind on the dancing law, even after Ariel confronts her father in the Christian Church and tells him that she is not a virgin anymore. The next day, he finds members of the congregation burning library books that are considered to be Satanic in the danger of town's youth. He finds that the situation has become uncomfortable, and so he stops the book burning and sends everybody home. The next Sunday, Reverend Moore asks for his congregation to pray for the high school putting on the prom and then it will be held in a grain mail next day. I'm prom night more and we listen to outside the mail and chucking his friends arrive but attack Willard run arrives in time to fight and knocks out Chuck. Ren, Ariel, Willard and Rusty all join at the prom and dance all night long.