movieId: 2989
title: For Your Eyes Only
year: 1981
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0082398/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Glen
actors: Roger Moore, Carole Bouquet, Topol, Lynn-Holly Johnson, Julian Glover, Cassandra Harris, Jill Bennett, Michael Gothard, John Wyman, Jack Hedley

synopsis:
Blofeld is alive and tries to kill Bond by trapping him inside a remote controlled helicopter. But Bond manages to take control back, locate Blofeld and attack him with the helicopter. The British information gathering vessel (spy boat) St Georges, which holds the Automatic Targeting Attack Communicator (ATAC), the system used by the Ministry of Defence to communicate with and co-ordinate the Royal Navy's fleet of Polaris submarines, is sunk after accidentally trawling an old naval mine in the Ionian Sea. MI6 agent James Bond (Sir Roger Moore ) is ordered by the Minister of Defence, Sir Frederick Gray ( Geoffrey Keen ) and MI6 Chief of Staff, Bill Tanner ( James Villiers ), to retrieve the ATAC before the Soviets, as the transmitter could order attacks by the submarines' Polaris ballistic missiles. Q ( Desmond Llewelyn ), Miss Moneypenny ( Lois Maxwell ). The head of the KGB, General Gogol ( Walter Gotell ), has also learned of the fate of the St Georges and already notified his contact in Greece. A marine archaeologist, Sir Timothy Havelock (Jack HEDLEY), who had been asked by the British to secretly locate the St Georges, is murdered with his wife by a Cuban hit-man, Hector Gonzales ( Stefan Kalipha ). Hector was identified by Timothy's daughter Melina (Hector was the pilot who flew Melina in to her Parent's yacht). Bond goes to Spain to find out who hired Gonzales. While spying on Gonzales' villa, Bond is captured by his men, but manages to escape as Gonzales is killed by a crossbow bolt. Outside, he finds the assassin was Melina Havelock ( Carole Bouquet ), the daughter of Sir Timothy, and the two escape together. With the help of Bond, Q uses computerized technology to identify the man Bond saw paying off Gonzales as Belgian underworld enforcer Emile Leopold Locque ( Michael Gothard ) (a Belgian-hired assassin known by his octagonal-rimmed glasses), and then goes to Locque's possible base in Cortina, Italy. There Bond meets his contact, Luigi Ferrara ( John Moreno ), and a well-connected Greek businessman and intelligence informant, Aris Kristatos ( Julian Glover ), who tells Bond that Locque is employed by Milos Columbo (TOPOL), known as "the Dove" in the Greek underworld, Kristatos' former resistance partner during the Second World War. But now Columbo is Kristatos' enemy and he convinces Bond to side with him. Bond finds Melina in Cortina and she is attacked by assassins. She tells Bond that she came because Bond messaged her, when he didn't. Bond convinces Melina to let him handle the case. After Bond goes with Kristatos' protege, figure skater Bibi Dahl ( Lynn-Holly Johnson ), to a biathlon course, a group of three men, which includes East German bi-athlete (and KGB agent) Eric Kriegler ( John Wyman ), chases Bond, trying to kill him. Bond escapes and then goes with Ferrara to bid Bibi farewell in an ice rink, where he fends off another attempt on his life by three men in ice hockey gear. Ferrara is killed in Bond's car, with a dove pin in his hand. Bond then travels to Corfu in pursuit of Columbo. There, at the casino, Bond meets Kristatos and asks how to meet Columbo, not knowing that Columbo's men are secretly recording their conversation. After Columbo and his mistress, 'Countess' Lisl Von Schlaf ( Cassandra Harris ), argue, Bond offers to escort her home with Kristatos' car and driver. The two then spend the night together. In the morning, Lisl and Bond are ambushed by Locque and his men, who run Lisl down, killing her. Bond is captured by Columbo's men before Locque can kill him; Columbo then tells Bond that Locque was actually hired by Kristatos, who was a double agent during the resistance and is currently working for the KGB to retrieve the ATAC. To prove his accusation, Columbo and his crew take Bond on a raid on one of Kristatos' opium-processing warehouses in Albania, where Bond encounters Locque and uncovers naval mines similar to the one that sank the St Georges, suggesting it was not an accident. After the warehouse is destroyed, Locque escapes; but Bond gives chase and kills him. Bond then rendezvous with Melina on her yacht. Using her father's daily log, they locate the St Georges and recover the ATAC from the wreckage (They are attacked relentlessly by Kristatos's men, first inside the submerged ship, whom Bond blows up with the explosive charge tied to the ATAC. and then when he and Melina get inside the two-person mini-sub, they are again attacked by another mini-sub belonging to Kristatos. Bond manages to push the other mini sub inside the submerged ship and escape). However, Kristatos is already waiting for them when they surface, and he takes the ATAC. After the two escape an assassination attempt through shark-infested waters (Melina spots an underwater hiding place with air pockets), they discover Kristatos' meeting point with the KGB with the help of Melina's parrot, Max (who was present when Kristatos discusses the meeting point with Kriegler, the KGB agent). With the help of Columbo and four of his men, Bond and Melina break into St Cyril's, an abandoned mountaintop monastery. Bond climbs up the mountain face with climbing gear and then activates the basket system to pull the rest of his team up, including Columbo and Melina. As Columbo confronts Kristatos, Bond kills Kriegler. Bond retrieves the ATAC system and stops Melina from killing Kristatos after he surrenders. Kristatos tries to kill Bond with a hidden switchblade, but is killed by a knife thrown by Columbo; Gogol arrives by helicopter to collect the ATAC, but Bond throws it off the cliff, destroying it and declaring detente. Bond and Melina later spend a romantic evening aboard her yacht when he receives a call from the Prime Minister (in a cameo by Margaret Thatcher impersonator Janet Brown ), leaving Max to flirt with the Prime Minister, much to the annoyance of Q, Grey, and Tanner.