movieId: 2651
title: Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man
year: 1943
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0035899/
ratingValue: 
directors: Roy William Neill
actors: Lon Chaney Jr., Ilona Massey, Patric Knowles, Lionel Atwill, Bela Lugosi, Maria Ouspenskaya, Dennis Hoey, Don Barclay, Rex Evans, Dwight Frye

synopsis:
The movie opens with the view of a full moon in a graveyard. As a rave squawks two grave robbers break into Larry Talbot's (aka The Wolfman- Lon Chaney Jr.) mausoleum. even though Larry has been dead for four years, his body is fully preserved. As the moon light hits the body, Larry comes to life and transforms. He kills the closer grave robber and the second one escapes. Later, Larry finds himself in a hospital with a big wound on his forehead. Dr. Mannering talks with him and Larry talks about his curse. Inspector Owen (from the police department) thinks Larry is crazy and the Dr. thinks that Larry believes that he is a murdering wolf, because of his head injury. Next night the Wolfman is seen in a nearby town and is confronted by a police officer. The beast runs down an ally and the officer meets his demise.
As Larry insists on the truth, the Dr. and the inspector go to Larry's hometown to prove that the real Larry Talbot is dead. However, they see that the body is gone and a picture of Larry looks exactly like the man in the hospital. Dr. Mannering then calls the hospital to check on Larry, only to find that he bit through his straight jacket and escaped through the window. The wolf kills again and then finds Maleva, the old gypsy woman from The Woflman (1941). They start on an adventure to Vasaria to seek the help of Dr. Frankenstein. Larry wants only to break the curse and die. On the way, Larry turns again and runs from the carriage so Maleva will not be attacked. After turning, he kills yet again and then passes out in the frozen ruins of Frankenstein's Castle. There he finds the infamous Monster and revives him. Larry, in his human form befriends the monster. Together they search the castle for Frankenstein's records and writings about the undead. They don't find what they need.
Later, Larry meets with the Baroness, Dr. Frankenstein's daughter to ask her for the doctor's diary. The Baroness declines but Larry agrees to meet her again at the festival of the new wine, the town's biggest event. At the event Dr. Mannering appears and confronts Larry. Larry is using an alias and refuses to go with the Dr. to get help. Then Larry explodes in anger and causes a scene. Just then, the town's attention turns to the arrival of the other undead visitor, The Monster. The villagers try to attack the monster and Larry helps him escape. They return to the castle and are soon joined by the baroness and the Dr. The Dr. promises to help both "men" as the Baroness finds her father's book. The villagers take Maleva as a prisoner and question her about what is going on. They figure it out and Vazec decides to go against the level-headed Mayor and take matters into his own hands. Vazec leaves his bar and disappears. Meanwhile Dr. Mannering has both the Monster and Larry strapped to two separate slabs. He has promised to drain both of their energy and destroy both Monsters. Then the Dr. changes his mind and becomes obsessed with Dr. Frankenstein's dreams and reverses the energy and powers up the Monster. Larry looks up at the full moon as the Monster breaks out of his straps. The Monster immediately sees the Baroness and grabs her. Larry transforms again and breaks out of his straps. He attacks the Monster who drops the Baroness.
Finally Vazec blows up the dam above the castle as the two titans battle. The monster throws a heavy piece of equipment at the Wolfman and the two spar back and forth. Then, just before the water bursts through the castle walls, the Wolfman climbs to a ledge to jump on the Monster and gain the upper hand. The Dr. grabs the Baroness and both flee before the flood wipes out the castle and take the two legends of horror with it.