movieId: 2757
title: Frances
year: 1982
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0083967/
ratingValue: 
directors: Graeme Clifford
actors: Jonathan Banks, Bonnie Bartlett, James Brodhead, Bart Burns, Jane Jenkins, Jordan Charney, Daniel Chodos, Rod Colbin, Donald Craig, Sarah Cunningham

synopsis:
Born in Seattle, Washington, Frances Elena Farmer (Jessica Lange) is a rebel from a young age, winning $100 in 1931 from the Scholastic Art and Writing Awards for a high school essay called "God Dies". In 1935, Frances became controversial again when she wins (and accepts) an all-expenses-paid trip to the Soviet Union to visit its Moscow Art Theatre. Determined to be an actress, Frances is equally determined not to play the Hollywood game: she refuses to acquiesce to publicity stunts, and insists upon appearing on screen without makeup. Frances marries her first husband, Dwayne Steele, despite being advised not to do so, but cheats on him with alleged Communist Harry York (Sam Shepard) on the night of her hometown's premiere of Come and Get It (1936). Her defiance attracts the attention of Broadway playwright Clifford Odets (Jeffrey DeMunn), who convinces Frances that her future rests with the Group Theatre. After leaving Hollywood for New York City and appearing in the Group Theatre play "Golden Boy", much to her chagrin, Frances learns that the Group Theatre exploited her fame only to draw in more customers, replacing her with a wealthy actress for her family's needed financial backing for the play's London tour, and Odets ends their affair upon his wife's upcoming return from Europe. Her desperate attempts to restart her film career upon returning to Hollywood results in being cast in unchallenging roles in forgettable B movies. Frances' increased dependence on alcohol and amphetamines in the 1940s and the pressures brought upon her by Lillian (Kim Stanley), her estranged mother who becomes her legal guardian after multiple legal problems, result in a complete nervous breakdown. After her first hospitalization at Kimball Sanitarium in La Crescenta where she is forced to undergo insulin shock therapy and hydrotherapy, Frances tells her mother that she doesn't want to return to Hollywood but instead wants to live alone in the countryside, assaulting and threatening Lillian in the resulting argument. While institutionalized at Western State Hospital, Frances is abused by the powers that be: she is subjected to electroconvulsive shock therapy, is cruelly beaten, periodically violated by the male orderlies and visiting soldiers from a nearby base and involuntarily lobotomized before her release by the 1950s. Eight years later, Frances is paid honor on Ralph Edwards' "This Is Your Life" television program, which Harry watches from his home. When asked about alcoholism, illegal drugs and mental illness, Framer denies them all and says "If you're treated like a patient, you're apt to act like one.". After a party honoring her at Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, Farmer walks down a street with Harry, talking about her parents' deaths, how she sold their house and that she's a "faceless sinner" with a slower paced lifestyle ahead of her in the future. The film's closing credits states that she moved to Indianapolis shortly afterwards, hosting a daytime television program ("Frances Farmer Presents") from 1958 to 1964 before dying, just as she lived, alone on August 1, 1970 at the age of 56.