movieId: 1222
title: Full Metal Jacket
year: 1987
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0093058/
ratingValue: 
directors: Stanley Kubrick
actors: Matthew Modine, Adam Baldwin, Vincent D'Onofrio, R. Lee Ermey, Dorian Harewood, Kevyn Major Howard, Arliss Howard, Ed O'Ross, John Terry, Kieron Jecchinis

synopsis:
In 1967, during the Vietnam War, a group of new United States Marine Corps recruits arrives at Parris Island for 8 weeks of basic training. After having their heads shaved, they meet their Senior Drill Instructor, Gunnery Sergeant Hartman (R. Lee Ermey) who is harsh, foul-mouthed and ruthless. Everyone is told to address Hartman and other seniors with sentences that are starting and ending with the word Sir. Hartman employs draconian tactics to turn the recruits into hardened Marines prepared for combat. Among the recruits are Privates "Joker" (Matthew Modine) who receives the name "Joker" after interrupting Hartman's introductory speech with an impression of John Wayne, "Cowboy" (Arliss Howard), and the overweight, bumbling Leonard Lawrence (Vincent D'Onofrio), who earns the nickname "Gomer Pyle" after attracting Hartman's wrath. Hartman takes his time going through the entire intake class in their dorm room on their first meeting and berates almost everyone on the floor. Pyle is unable wipe a grin off his face and Hartman believes that Pyle is smirking at him. Hartman tries to choke Pyle until he stops grinning.
In platoon march, Pyle gets confused between left and right and gets slapped by Hartman repeatedly. He is made to drop his pants and follow the platoon while sucking his thumb.
Pyle fails to negotiate the obstacle course as well, earning even more rebuke and insults from Hartman. Pyle is so unfit that he cannot complete a single push-up and even complete the daily morning runs. Unresponsive to Hartman's discipline, Pyle is eventually paired with Joker after Joker is promoted to squadron leader (Joker stands up Hartman and does not reverse his answer even after being slapped by him). Pyle improves with Joker's help.
One evening while doing a hygiene inspection, Hartman notices that Pyle's footlocker is unlocked. As he inspects it for signs of theft, he notices a jelly doughnut inside, blames the platoon for Pyle's infractions and adopts a collective punishment policy by which any infraction committed by Pyle will earn a punishment for everyone else in the platoon.
In retaliation, the platoon hazes Pyle with a blanket party, restraining him to his bunk and beating him with bars of soap wrapped in towels. After this incident, Pyle becomes a model Marine, showing particular expertise in marksmanship. This impresses Hartman, but worries Joker, who recognizes signs of mental breakdown in Pyle, such as talking to his M14 rifle. Following their graduation, the recruits receive their Military Occupational Specialty assignments. Joker is assigned to Basic Military Journalism. The recruits graduate, but the night before they leave Parris Island, Joker, who is on fire watch duty, discovers Pyle in the barracks latrine loading his service rifle with live ammunition, executing drill commands, and loudly reciting the Rifleman's Creed.
The noise awakens the platoon and Hartman. Hartman confronts Pyle and orders him to surrender the rifle. Pyle kills Hartman and then commits suicide. In January 1968, Joker, now a Sergeant, is a Marine War correspondent in Vietnam for Stars and Stripes with Private First Class Rafterman (Kevyn Major Howard), a combat photographer. Rafterman wants to go into combat, as Joker claims he has done. At the Marine base, Joker is mocked for his lack of the thousand-yard stare, indicating his lack of war experience. They are interrupted by the start of the Tet Offensive as the North Vietnamese Army attempts to overrun the base. The following day, the journalism staff is briefed about enemy attacks throughout South Vietnam. Joker is sent to Phu Bai, accompanied by Rafterman. The following morning, Joker and Rafterman are sent to Phu Bai, where Joker searches for and reunites with Sergeant "Cowboy" Evans, a friend from Parris Island who now serves in a unit dubbed the "Lusthog Squad".
While reporting at a site where civilians were massacred, Joker is shouted to attention by a Marine Corps colonel who challenges Joker on the inconsistency of the peace symbol on his uniform's lapel, and the words "Born to Kill" on his helmet. Joker explains this was intended as commentary on the duality of man. During the Battle of Hue, platoon leader Lieutenant Walter J. "Touchdown" Schinoski (Ed O'Ross) is killed by the enemy. After the area is declared secure by the Marines, a team of American news journalists and reporters enter Hue and interview various Marines about their experiences in Vietnam and their opinions about the war. During patrol, Crazy Earl (Kieron Jecchinis), the squad leader, is killed by a booby trap, leaving Cowboy in command. The squad becomes lost, and Cowboy orders Eightball (Dorian Harewood) an African American member of the squad unfazed by racial slurs, and Animal Mother's closest friend, to scout the area. A Viet Cong sniper wounds Eightball and the squad medic, Doc Jay (John Stafford), attempts to save him against orders, being wounded himself. Cowboy learns that tank support is not available and orders the team to prepare for withdrawal. The squad's machine gunner, Animal Mother (Adam Baldwin) a nihilistic, combat-hungry machine gunner in the Lusthog Squad who takes pride in killing enemy soldiers, and scorns any authority other than his own, disobeys Cowboy and attempts to save his teammates. He discovers there is only one sniper, but Doc Jay and Eightball are killed when Doc attempts to indicate the sniper's location. While maneuvering towards the sniper, Cowboy is shot and killed.
Animal Mother assumes command of the squad and leads an attack on the sniper. Joker discovers the sniper, a teenage girl, and attempts to shoot her, but his rifle jams and alerts her to his presence. Rafterman shoots the sniper, mortally wounding her. As the squad converge, the sniper begs for death, prompting an argument about whether or not to kill her. Animal Mother decides to allow a mercy killing only if Joker performs it. After some hesitation, Joker shoots her. The Marines congratulate him on his kill as Joker stares into the distance, displaying the thousand-yard stare. The Marines march toward their camp, singing the Mickey Mouse March. Joker states that despite being "in a world of shit," he is glad to be alive and no longer afraid.