movieId: 4111
title: Gardens of Stone
year: 1987
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0093073/
ratingValue: 
directors: Francis Ford Coppola
actors: James Caan, Anjelica Huston, James Earl Jones, D.B. Sweeney, Dean Stockwell, Mary Stuart Masterson, Dick Anthony Williams, Lonette McKee, Sam Bottoms, Elias Koteas

synopsis:
The movie begins with a funeral in a cemetery during the Vietnam War, with military rites. As the audience continues to see video from the funeral and hear bagpipes being played, a narrator reads a letter to "Sarge". In 1968 at Fort Myer, Specialist Jackie Willow arrives ready to serve. The Old Guard, an elite unit that participates in military funerals at Arlington National Cemetery, is based there. Sgt. Clel Hazard would rather be somewhere else, believing the soldiers at Fort Myer are "toy soldiers". But his requests for transfer have never been granted. While he would like to train troops to serve in Vietnam, he is opposed to the war and thinks the U.S. can't win. Willow, by contrast, would rather be serving in Vietnam. When there is a war, he believes that is where U.S. soldiers should be. Hazard has been assigned to "take care" of Willow because he served with Willow's father in Korea. Also welcoming Willow is Sgt. Maj. Goody Nelson. Willow meets with Capt. Thomas who explains Delta Company's prestige. Hazard shares an elevator with Samantha, a Washington Post reporter who lives in his building. He helps her with her bags and asks her to come to his place for dinner with friends. The friends are late, but they get to know each other before the others arrive. Hazard likes Persian rugs and has interesting books. Samantha admits to being opposed to the war. Nelson and his wife Betty Rae join them and they have conversations about various topics. Nelson and Betty Rae met when she was working for Sen. Sam Ervin of North Carolina and he needed her help. Sgt. Flanagan orders the soldiers out of bed early and tells them to prepare for inspection. Wildman, another soldier, takes abuse from Flanagan for his incompetence, but Willow tries to help him succeed. Over time, Wildman continues to mess up. From time to time, Willow, Hazard and Nelson socialize at a bar. On one occasion Willow disagrees with the other men who say Vietnam is different from other wars. Willow gets drunk and gets in a fight with others, and Hazard and Nelson have to take him out. Willow learns his beloved father died and he cries. He is given time off to grieve and attend the funeral. Hazard and Samantha go on several dates. One ends with them kissing at her door, and possibly preparing to do more than kiss. Samantha and Hazard tell each other that both are divorced, but Hazard has a son he has not seen in a long time. Willow is promoted to "buck sergeant" and goes through a hazing by the other sergeants. His objective, however, is to train at Officer Candidate School. Willow occasionally narrates, reading a letter. From time to time, the Old Guard participates in funerals. Samantha is part of the audience when the unit puts on a show for the public where the duties of various groups are described. For example, one group is dressed as soldiers would have during the American Revolution. A band plays in the style musicians might have at that time. As part of his group Wildman messes up several times. When the show is over, Wildman tells Willow a pretty girl keeps looking at him. Willow sees the girl, and it is his ex Rachel. Willow goes over to meet her and expresses interest in dating again. She has a date but he persuades her to break it. Willow introduces her to Hazard and later asks to borrow money from Hazard. Samantha says she got arrested for protesting but intends to continue to oppose the war. Willow arrives at the home of Rachel's parents. Her father Col. Feld is working on a secret project for the Pentagon and he and his wife have moved to the area. Rachel is just visiting, as she is living in Europe. Willow and Rachel go on their date and get in a disagreement when he wants to talk about the war and she doesn't. She reminds him they broke up because Willow got the impression he wasn't good enough for her father, who was apparently trying to get him into West Point. Rachel says he was gullible. She also said she never read his letters to her. Willow and Rachel end up at Hazard's place and is told there will be field exercises the next day. Willow and other soldiers go through training that will hopefully teach them what to do to survive in Vietnam. Hazard is missing but Nelson finds him, and they get in an argument. Hazard wants to teach soldiers what to do in order to survive. Nelson says Hazard is a platoon sergeant. Hazard's latest request for a transfer is denied. He won't get what he wants by acting crazy, but is told everyone who could approve a transfer will hear he is a fine soldier. Thomas yells at Nelson for embarrassing him and Nelson yells at Hazard, who is "arrested" as a prank. Willow completes officer training and returns to a celebration. He asks Rachel to marry him. There is a wedding and a reception. Willow and Wildman are among those who get their orders for Vietnam. Wildman, a newspaper says, serves honorably and receives the Congressional Medal of Honor. What appears to be actual video and audio from the war is shown several times. Nelson is told to come calm Hazard down. He is in a room breaking things. Willow's name is on a list of funerals. Willow was determined to earn a Combat Infantryman Badge. Hazard then visits Samantha. Willow's funeral takes place, with Hazard speaking. Some parts of the funeral are a repeat of scenes from the start of the movie, only now the audience knows Rachel is the grieving widow. "Taps" is played at the end.