movieId: 7151
title: Girl with a Pearl Earring
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0335119/
ratingValue: 
directors: Peter Webber
actors: Colin Firth, Scarlett Johansson, Tom Wilkinson, Judy Parfitt, Cillian Murphy, Essie Davis, Joanna Scanlan, Alakina Mann, Chris McHallem, Gabrielle Reidy

synopsis:
Griet (Scarlett Johansson) is a shy girl living in the Dutch Republic in 1665. Her father (Chris McHallem), a Delftware painter, has recently gone blind, rendering him unable to work and leaving his family in a precarious financial situation. Griet is sent to work as a maid in the household of famed painter Johannes Vermeer (Colin Firth) and his wife, Catharina (Essie Davis). On the way there, she stops momentarily at a crossroads. Griet works diligently and almost wordlessly in the lowest position of a harsh hierarchy (She is given the most menial tasks and is not allowed to speak unless spoken to. She sleeps in a tiny space in the basement of the house). She does her best to adjust, in spite of the unkind treatment from Vermeer's spoiled adolescent daughter, Cornelia (Alakina Mann) (she puts dirt on the recently cleaned sheets and when Griet slaps her, she tears her clothes and breaks a portrait, given to Griet by her father before she left the house). Griet is asked to clean the studio of the master Johannes, when he is sleeping, so as not to disturb him. Maria Thins is Johannes's mother-in-law and notices Griet's fascination and interest in his work.
Johannes is under pressure to finish a painting to pay the family bills and maintain their lifestyle. Around them, families are going bankrupt and being thrown out of their houses. Catharina has just given birth to their 6th child. While Griet is on a routine shopping run, a butcher's son, Pieter (Cillian Murphy), is drawn to her. She is slow to return his affections as their relationship develops. As Griet cleans Vermeer's studio, which Catharina never enters (Rumor has it that one year it got so bad that Johannes sold some of Catharina's jewels to keep the house going. she got so mad, that she broke half the China and set fire to one of his paintings.
Since then, she is barred from entering his studio), the painter begins to converse with her and encourages her appreciation of painting, light, and color.
Vermeer's rich patron, Van Ruijven (Tom Wilkinson), visits the household and notices Griet. Van Ruijven loves Johannes's work. Johannes has just delivered a painting to Van Rujiven and is looking for inspiration for his next project. One day, Johannes finds Griet cleaning the windows of his studio, and loves what he sees. He decides to paint the scene as his next project. He gives her lessons in mixing paints and other tasks while keeping this secret from Catharina, to avoid angering her. In contrast, Vermeer's pragmatic mother-in-law, Maria Thins (Judy Parfitt), sees Griet as useful to Vermeer's career.
Johannes has Griet moved to the attic, so she can secretly spend more time in his studio. Griet helps Johannes with subtle suggestions to the scene (like removing the chair in front of the maid), which he incorporates, pleasing her.
Cornelia steals one of Catharina's tortoise shells combs and blames it on Griet. Griet begs Johannes for help, who ransacks the house and finds the comb in Cornelia's bed. Cornelia is caned by Maria. Catharina wants to fire Griet, but Maria suggests inviting Van Ruijven for a new commission for Johannes instead. Van Ruijven asks if Vermeer will give up Griet so she can work in the patron's house, where Van Ruijven ruined the former girl-maid (He got her pregnant and then discarded her). Vermeer refuses but agrees to paint a portrait of Griet for Van Ruijven. Maria pays Griet to pose for Johannes, without telling Catharina. As he secretly works on the painting, Catharina notices something is amiss. Her growing disdain for the maid becomes apparent, spurred on by Van Ruijven's deliberate suggestions of an improper relationship between Vermeer and Griet. A conflicted Griet deals with her growing fascination with Vermeer and his talent while fending off Van Ruijven, who attempts to sexually assault her in the courtyard (only saved when Catharina calls for Griet). Later, when Catharina is out for the day, her mother hands Griet her daughter's pearl earrings and asks Vermeer to finish the painting. At the final painting session, Vermeer pierces Griet's left earlobe so she can wear one of the earrings for the portrait. Tensions heighten when she reacts in pain and Vermeer caresses her face. She runs to Pieter for consolation and distraction from her thoughts of Vermeer. The two make love in a barn. Pieter proposes marriage, but Griet unexpectedly leaves. She returns the earrings to Catharina's mother. Catharina flies into a rage upon discovering Griet wore her earrings and storms into the studio, accusing her mother of complicity. She demands Vermeer show her the commissioned portrait. Offended by the intimate nature of the painting, Catharina dismisses it as "obscene" and tearfully asks why Vermeer wouldn't paint her. When Vermeer responds that she doesn't understand, she tries but fails to destroy the painting. She banishes Griet from the house. Vermeer does not object. Griet returns to her parents' home and stands once again at crossroads. Later, she receives a visit at her parents' home from Vermeer's cook, Tanneke (Joanna Scanlan), who brings a gift: the blue headscarf Griet wore in the painting, wrapped around Catharina's pearl earrings. In the final scene, Van Ruijven sits looking smugly at the real-life painting, Girl with a Pearl Earring.