movieId: 3717
title: Gone in 60 Seconds
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0187078/
ratingValue: 
directors: Dominic Sena
actors: Nicolas Cage, Giovanni Ribisi, Angelina Jolie, T.J. Cross, William Lee Scott, Scott Caan, James Duval, Will Patton, Delroy Lindo, Timothy Olyphant

synopsis:
Kip Raines (Giovanni Ribisi) , along with 2 other men, are about to steal a car under orders from Raymond Vincent Calitri (Christopher Eccleston) a British gangster in Long Beach, California. The goal is to steal 50 top of the line cars to fill an order from an international auto theft ring. The intended car is a Porsche 996, still in a showroom. Kip tells the 2 men that he's going to get his tools to steal the car. He opens his trunk, takes out a brick and throws it through the glass door of the car dealership. They steal the car, driving it through the glass wall of the dealership. The police track the car back to the gang's warehouse. Everyone escapes but Detectives Castlebeck and Drycoff (Timothy Olyphant) impound the stolen cars (including 3 Mercedes) and open an investigation. Randall "Memphis" Raines (Nicolas Cage) is a former car thief who is now running a rundown go-kart track. Atley Jackson (Will Patton), Calitri's associate, reaches out to Kip's brother Memphis and tells him that Calitri has his brother Kip and he is in serious trouble. They go to Long Beach and to Calitri's headquarters in a wrecking yard. The brother is handcuffed to the steering wheel of a car in a crusher. Calitri had kidnapped Kip and planned to kill him in the car crusher. Memphis agrees to steal the 50 cars within 72 hours, and Kip is released. Calitri warns that if the cars are not delivered on time, Kip will be killed.
Helen (Grace Zabriskie) is the mother of Kip and Memphis. Day 1, Memphis visits his mentor Otto Halliwell (Rebert Duvall), and they assemble a crew of old associates: Donny Astricky (Chi McBride) a driver instructor and a former member of Memphis' team, now a driving instructor. Sphinx, a mute mortician and Sara "Sway" Wayland (Angelina Jolie), a mechanic and bartender. Kip and his crew including Tumbler (Scott Caan), Mirror Man (T.J. Cross), Toby (William Lee Scott) and Freb (James Duval) volunteer to help, Day 2, the group tracks down the cars, giving each a code name. Memphis insists on saving a 1967 Ford Shelby GT500, dubbed "Eleanor", which he has attempted to steal before, for last. While scouting the cars, he and Kip narrowly avoid being killed by a rival gang led by Johnny "Johnny B" (Master P) a past rival of Memphis who still holds a grudge against him. Hoping to deliver the cars before they can be traced, the crew plans to steal every car in one night. Day 3, they steal the cars. The police Detective Roland Castlebeck (Delroy Lindo) knows how the original 3 Mercedes were stolen. Castlebeck and Drycoff learn that Kip bribed a Mercedes dealership employee to order laser-cut transponder keys, enabling the detectives to stakeout the Mercedes cars on the crew's list. A member of Kip's crew impulsively steals a Cadillac Eldorado not on the list, and the crew discovers a stash of heroin in the trunk. Castlebeck arrives, forcing the crew to distract him while they dispose of the drugs. He leaves, having ascertained that the heist is happening that night. The crew sets their heist in motion, stealing the various cars and delivering them to Atley on the docks. As they prepare to use the transponder keys to steal the Mercedes cars, Memphis spots Castlebeck and Drycoff watching from a surveillance van. Memphis notifies the rest of his team to walk away from the Mercedes. He still needs these cars to fill his order. He then realizes that he still has the original keys from the first attempt. He decides to steal the 3 Mercedes from the police impound lot. The plan is hampered temporarily when Otto's dog eats and eventually passes, the keys. Memphis and Sara rekindle their past romance while stealing a Lamborghini Diablo. Castlebeck and Drycoff return to the warehouse seized from Kip's crew. Having found pieces of a broken black-light lamp, the detectives discover the crew's list of 50 cars written in UV-sensitive paint. With too many cars to track, Castlebeck focuses on the Shelby GT500, knowing Memphis will steal it last, and determines its location. When the crew steals a Cadillac Escalade, security is alerted, and a member of Kip's crew is injured. They've now got 49 cars and need just one more. The last car is a 1967 Mustang Shelby GT. This has always been a problem car for Memphis since he's never had a successful theft of this type of car. He starts the car but when he starts to pull out of the lot, the police show up. A huge chase begins lasting about 15 minutes ending with Memphis stopped when he reaching the Vincent Thomas Bridge, blocked by an accident. As the police are about to capture him, Memphis notices a truck used for carrying autos with its ramp down. Memphis floors it and using the ramp, jumps over all the cars stuck in traffic, evading Castlebeck, Drycoff, LAPD, and CHP that had surrounded him. He gets the car to Calitri 12 minutes late. Calitri toys with Memphis saying he'll let his brother live but has really made up his mind to kill Memphis. As his henchman are about to kill Memphis, Kip and Atley use the junkyard crane to knock out the henchmen, and an armed Calitri pursues Memphis into the warehouse. Roland shows up and he, Memphis and Calitri have a gunfight inside the warehouse. Calitri has Roland at gunpoint and is about to shoot him when Memphis runs and throws himself against Calitri, knocking Calitri off the railing to his death.
Roland was there to arrest Memphis for auto theft but let's Memphis go for saving his life. A grateful Castlebeck lets Memphis go free, and Memphis tells him where to find the container ship full of stolen cars. The crew celebrates with a barbecue, and Kip reveals that he has bought Memphis a dilapidated 1967 Shelby GT500 which Memphis also calls "Eleanor", which Otto promises to restore. Memphis invites Sway on a ride, but the car breaks down just as they drive away.