movieId: 2112
title: Grand Canyon
year: 1991
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0101969/
ratingValue: 
directors: Lawrence Kasdan
actors: Danny Glover, Kevin Kline, Steve Martin, Mary McDonnell, Mary-Louise Parker, Alfre Woodard, Jeremy Sisto, Tina Lifford, Patrick Y. Malone, Randle Mell

synopsis:
Mack (Kline) is court-side at a Lakers game, but notices the women as much as the game. After the game, Davis (Martin) who apparently was with Mack at the game is giving a lecture on 'everyone' escaping their inner fear. They say good-bye. On the way home Mack's car stalls in a bad neighborhood. His phone also dies so he finds a store and calls a tow truck. Before it arrives some toughs come and orders Mack out of the car, clearly intending a robbery or worse. The tow truck driver - Simon (Glover) arrives, attaches the car and talks his and Macks way out of the situation. As they leave the scene shifts to a helicopter with a searchlight flying over a house in a poor neighborhood. Inside, a son enters the house and wakes his mom, Deborah (Lifford). She gives up the couch and goes to bed, the boy (Otis) watches the taped Lakers game on the couch.
Mack and Simon stop to call Macks wife Claire (McDonnell) and sit with soft drinks, reliving the incident and getting to know each other. Simon tells Mack to go to the Grand Canyon for a vacation.
The next scene finds Davis reviewing the days shots of a film and notices a favored scene missing, yells at his co-workers.
We next see Mack and Claire dropping their son off for a month-long camp, apparently for the deaf. Next,
The camera switches to Davis, getting into a nice sports car. Confronted by a mugger, he's shot in the leg and undergoes surgery.
Next we see Claire jogging and she finds an abandoned baby, taking it home. Inexplicably not calling authorities.
At the office Mack appears to be a lawyer. His secretary Dee (Parker) flirts with him. His reaction is ambiguous, but he certainly doesn't repel her.
Next we see Simon bringing in some groceries and he calls his daughter via text. He seems to be remembering a caress.
Mom and Dee are at lunch Dee is telling her about her unrequited love for Mack. Mack returns home and Claire - who's obviously smitten with it - shows him the baby. They are shown giving it up to the police.
Simon is shown eating with Otis and Deborah, his sister. Otis tells Simon h'es a gang-banger. Later a drive-by shooter riddles the house.
The next morning Davis sees the sunrise from his hospital bed and exclaims 'I have seen the light'. Dee and Claire start the morning viewing scenes of deep poverty. Claire despairs of the poverty around them, followed by an earthquake, in which their elderly neighbor experiences heart attack and Mack attempts to revive him. That night, while a helicopter searches, Mack dreams about floating above the city, Simon and a naked Dee also appear before switching to Claire, who - dreaming - "awakes" to an empty house and runs to a train where she sees here son and Mack depart. The baby's voice haunts her, following it till she awakes.
The next day Davis is released from the hospital and Mack informs him Claire wants to adopt the baby. On the way home dais attempt to talk Mack out of it. Davis tells him he's had a life-changing vision. Mack goes to Simons place of work and they go to breakfast. Upon hearing about Jane situation, Mack offers to help her move to a better neighborhood. We next see Davis relating his hospital experience to Claire. He wants to get out of the movie business and do 'good' things. Claire relates their efforts thus far in adopting the baby and the marital strife it engenders. Simon relates the offer to Deborah. Mack interrupts Dee and Jane (Woodard) lunch and tries to set up a date with Simon and Jane.
Later we see Jane and Simon on their first date and Dee is stalking Macks house.
Deborah moves to the new neighborhood but Otis doesn't react well and is picked up by police who return him to his new apartment. Otis feels it was racially motivated. Dee resigns and we learn they had a 1-night stand with Mack. The rest of the movie shows everyone moving along with their lives.
Simon offers to thank Mack for setting him up with Jane - and the final scene is of him taking everyone e in a van - to the Grand Canyon.