movieId: 4599
title: Great Balls of Fire!
year: 1989
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0097457/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jim McBride
actors: Dennis Quaid, Winona Ryder, John Doe, Stephen Tobolowsky, Trey Wilson, Alec Baldwin, Steve Allen, Lisa Blount, Joshua Sheffield, Mojo Nixon

synopsis:
Jerry Lee Lewis (Dennis Quaid) plays piano, as opposed to a guitar like most other rock artists, during rock and roll's early years from 1956 to 1958. He is a man with many different sides: a skilled performer with little discipline, and an alcoholic. As Jerry Lee rises to the top of the charts with hits such as "Crazy Arms", "Whole Lotta Shakin' Goin' On", and "Great Balls of Fire", he falls in love with Myra Gale Brown (Winona Ryder), the 13-year-old daughter of his first cousin and bass player J.W. Brown (John Doe), and eventually marries her (eloping in Mississippi), much to the anger and chagrin of her parents. Jerry Lee's other relationship is that with second cousin and televangelist Jimmy Swagger (Alec Baldwin) who, during this period, was a struggling Pentecostal preacher. Jimmy's career kept him in constant conflict with his cousin's wild rock and roll career and brings out some uncomfortable exchanges between the two. The now-financially successful Jerry Lee buys a new automobile and gives it to his cousin, and when praises the Lord for the gift, Jerry Lee replies "Don't thank Jesus, thank Jerry Lee Lewis!" While Jerry Lee is touring in England in 1958, a reporter discovers he is married to the underage Myra Gale. He is then condemned as a child molester and a pervert by the public before being booed and ridiculed off stage at his opening concert; as a result, the tour is cancelled and Jerry Lee is deported. Confident that his career will remain a success, Jerry Lee is undaunted; however, the scandal follows him back to the United States. Jerry Lee then begins drinking heavily when record sales and concert attendances are significantly down. He becomes further furious when requested to print a public apology in Billboard and becomes increasingly abusive towards Myra. It is during one of these episodes that Myra informs Jerry Lee that she is pregnant, and he collapses into Myra's arms, crying hysterically. In a last-ditch effort to improve his life, Jerry Lee, with Myra in tow, attends one of Swaggert's church services. During the altar call, Jimmy offers Jerry Lee one more chance to become saved and get right with God, but Jerry Lee again refuses, declaring "If I'm going to Hell, I'm going there playing the piano!" The caption preceding the closing credits reads, "Jerry Lee Lewis is playing his heart out somewhere in America tonight."