movieId: 2786
title: Haunted Honeymoon
year: 1986
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0091178/
ratingValue: 
directors: Gene Wilder
actors: Gene Wilder, Gilda Radner, Dom DeLuise, Jonathan Pryce, Bryan Pringle, Peter Vaughan, Eve Ferret, Paul L. Smith, Julann Griffin, Jim Carter

synopsis:
Set in the 1930s, a car pulls into the driveway of a Gothic mansion after an actor disguised as a woman with a knife protruding from his back collapses on the windowsill. As the wind carries off the man's wig, a werewolf lurking in the bushes reaches for it, but howls when the driver walks toward the front door. At a radio station, actors Larry Abbot (Gene Wilder) and Vickie Pearle (Gilda Radner) are acting the roles of "Freddy," the suspected werewolf, and "Lady Wolfington," his fiancée, in the radio play 'Haunted Honeymoon'. During a commercial break, reporters interview the actors about their upcoming marriage. Larry and Vickie are at their charming best, and when Larry has a lapse in concentration, Vickie covers for him. Just before the play resumes, a producer asks Eddy, the sound effects man, to demonstrate his wind and storm sounds. Upon hearing the effects, Larry gets a faraway look in his eyes. Vickie as Lady Wolfington speaks on the telephone with Detective Karp in Scotland Yard, revealing her fear that her fiancé, Freddy, has become a werewolf. Karp offers that a clue to Freddy's condition would be if he stumbled over words beginning with the letter "w." As storm sound effects are introduced, Larry giggles nervously and stumbles over his words, especially "Wolfington Castle." Larry's awkward behavior upsets Mr. Tarlow, the show's sponsor, and he wants to fire the actor. However, Larry's uncle, Dr. Paul Abbot (Paul L. Smith), a famous psychiatrist appears and explains that his nephew's recent engagement has opened a "crack in his psyche." Based on the theories of Swiss scientist, Dr. Strickland, Abbot suggests that he can cure Larry at his wedding surrounded by relatives, scaring him to death at the isolated estate of his Aunt Kate. He says it is better if Vickie is unaware of the plan, and the executives agree. At the mansion, Aunt Kate (Dom DeLuise) revises her will, making Larry the sole beneficiary when she suspects someone is trying to kill her. She swears her brother and attorney, Francis, Sr. (Peter Vaughan), to secrecy. If Larry dies first, Kate asks that her money be divided equally among her surviving relatives. However, someone overhears Aunt Kate's wishes. When Larry and Vickie arrive, Pfister (Bryan Pringle), the butler, appears not to recognize Larry, even though Larry spent his childhood at the mansion. Soon, Pfister 's wife, Rachel (Ann Way), answers the door, and is startled by a magician named Montego (Jim Carter). As his eyes glow, Rachel is no longer rattled and welcomes him. He explains that he is Susan Abbot's husband, and she will arrive shortly by train. Larry settles Vickie in her bedroom. In the hallway, Pfister warmly greets Larry, but has no memory of meeting Larry and Vickie earlier. Soon, cousin Charles (Jonathan Pryce), son of Dr. Paul Abbot, arrives with his girl friend, Sylvia Beach (Eve Ferrett). Dr. Abbot arrives with his wife, Nora (Julann Giffin), and nods knowingly at Pfister. In his room, Larry opens a drawer and a black cobra leaps out. He tries to escape, but the bedroom door is locked. Vickie and Francis, Sr., respond to Larry's screams, and find him atop a moose head anchored to the wall. Larry tells them to call the zoo to remove the deadly snake. However, Francis, Sr. only finds a stuffed toy in the drawer not a real snake. In their room, Sylvia Beach wants to marry Charles, but he confesses that he is too broke, while an intruder climbs up the side of the mansion. Charles asks for more time, but Sylvia is tired of waiting. In the hallway, Sylvia smothers Larry in kisses, and Larry pretends it was Pfister's wife Rachel who kissed him when Vickie sees his face covered in lipstick. At the cocktail hour, Dr. Abbot and Francis, Sr. scheme together. Sylvia confesses to being a longtime fan of Montego, while Vickie recognizes Sylvia's lipstick and warns her to stay away from Larry. Soon, Charles accuses Larry of flirting with Sylvia, but Larry protests he is about to be married and introduces Vickie. Aunt Kate appears on the staircase and announces that her house is cursed. At dinner, Aunt Kate tells her guests that one of them is the werewolf she saw earlier in the garden. Many years ago, Kate's brother, John, was first bitten and transformed into a werewolf. His affliction was passed on to a descendant in the room. Later, Aunt Kate's dog, Toby, barks as a werewolf sneaks into the mansion basement through a hidden passage. In the parlor, Vickie joins Aunt Kate in singing "Balling The Jack." Everyone enjoys the performance but Aunt Kate wants to know why Francis, Jr. has not arrived, and mentions that one of her dresses is missing. Francis, Sr. explains that his son does a wicked impression of his aunt and often borrows her dress for maximum effect. In the basement, the werewolf cuts the power, and Pfister leads the guests to their rooms by candlelight. In the wine cellar, the werewolf demands money from one of the guests, and is told he will be paid when the job is done. When the werewolf refuses to kill Larry and threatens to expose the guest's plot, he is killed. Upstairs, a guest sneaks into Vickie's room and asks for her help. Larry discovers cousin Francis, Jr.'s dead body in his bed. However, when he attempts to show Pfister the corpse, the body is missing. Larry returns to bed, and is soon disturbed by a ghoul peering down at him. He touches the apparition, screams, and runs to the door, which opens onto a brick wall. Meanwhile, the harpsichord in his room spontaneously plays "Who's Afraid Of The Big Bad Wolf?" Vickie, clothed in her wedding dress, floats outside Larry's window like a spirit, calling his name. His room door spontaneously unlocks, and he follows Vickie's voice outside, seeing her veil in the grass. When he kneels to grab it, a hand comes out of the ground and clutches his throat. He breaks free and screams. Elsewhere, two police deputies notice electrical disturbances at the Abbot estate and investigate. Larry is locked out of the house, and enters through the basement. There, he sees Francis, Jr.'s dead body. Pfister accuses Larry of being a werewolf, and committing murder. Pfister tries to strangle Larry, who knocks the butler unconscious. Deputies appear, and Larry claims to be rehearsing his lines. As the deputies search the rest of the house, a werewolf attacks Larry, but he escapes upstairs. The werewolf hears Toby barking and escapes through the secret passageway. Larry searches all the bedrooms looking for Vickie. Outside, Vickie dangles suspended in the air from a harness, controlled by cousin Charles, as part of Abbot's "fright cure." She demands to be lowered to use the nearest bathroom. Larry sees Pfister about to bury Francis, Jr. and the murdered werewolf when deputies appear. Larry dances with Francis, Jr.'s corpse so as not to arouse suspicion, and Pfister plays a concertina as the other corpse rests on his shoulder without its werewolf mask. Larry gives a deputy his autograph and the officers leave. As Pfister and Larry hide the corpses, another guest wearing a werewolf mask knocks them unconscious with a shovel. Larry is thrown into a coffin, but revives only to discover that he has been buried alive. Dr. Abbot informs Francis, Sr. that his son is dead. Cousin Charles offers to call police, and the rest of the guests fan out to search the grounds. Aunt Kate stays behind to guard the unconscious Pfister. Toby paws the ground where Larry is buried. Inside, Vickie listens to cousin Charles on the telephone argue with police, and discovers the electricity has been cut. When cousin Charles realizes that Vickie is aware the phone is dead, he pulls a leather glove out of his pocket, and remarks that Larry is not the only actor in the family. Cousin Charles attempts to strangle Vickie, but Larry catches up with them. He and cousin Charles fight until he is knocked to the ground. Cousin Charles proclaims that he is better looking, smarter than his cousin, and will become a lot richer.
As Charles lifts a large, priceless vase to strike Larry, Aunt Kate shoots cousin Charles dead with a rifle. The wedding of Larry and Vickie takes place without a hitch. Back at the radio station, the radio play for this whole story 'Haunted Honeymoon' ends (revealed to all have taken place in Larry's mind) as the male actor playing Aunt Kate delivers the final monologue to close the broadcast. As Larry and Vickie dash off for their real wedding, a werewolf in a raincoat, watches them drive away and muses that it would be wrong to assume a happy ending to the tale.