movieId: 4879
title: High Heels and Low Lifes
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0253126/
ratingValue: 
directors: Mel Smith
actors: Minnie Driver, Mary McCormack, Kevin McNally, Mark Williams, Danny Dyer, Michael Gambon, Darren Boyd, Simon Scardifield, Len Collin, Jane Partridge

synopsis:
The film follows the story of two women living in London, Shannon (Minnie Driver) and Frances (Mary McCormack), attempting to con a group of gangsters, led by Kerrigan (Michael Gambon) and Alan Mason (Kevin McNally) (Gang also includes Danny (Danny Dyer) & Barry (Len Collin)), into giving them £1,000,000 after they overhear a conversation between gang members during a local bank heist.
Shannon's boyfriend Ray (Darren Boyd) has a police radio and randomly listens into radio frequencies, records conversations and makes music tapes (The Urban noise Symphony) out of it. On this day, it was Shannon's birthday, but Ray refused to take her out for dinner. Shannon kicks Ray out and Frances joins her on her night out. Later at night, in despair they start listening to the radio frequencies themselves, and chance upon Danny talking to his girlfriend on his mobile (Danny was on lookout).. The equipment allowed Ray to listen into all electronic equipment and not just radio. Shannon & Frances also get Danny's mobile number from the equipment. when a police car drives by, the girls listen to Danny talking to Mason and know that the robbers are very nearby. The girls go to the police, who ignore them. The next morning, the robbery is discovered, and detectives Tremaine (Mark Williams) & McGill (Kevin Eldon) are assigned to investigate. The girls find via media reports that almost 10 million pounds have been stolen from the lockers. Frances convinces Shannon to call the robbers, instead of the police, as they still have Danny's number. They want a share of the loot.
Meanwhile Tremaine and McGill figure out that 2 girls approached the police station the previous night about a robbery underway. The idea is that the money will later be used to purchase a large amount of expensive medical equipment for the hospital where Shannon works as an overworked and underpaid nurse.
Frances, a failing American actress who has resorted to doing voice acting for children's cartoons, wants the money so that she can get out of the rut she believes she is stuck in, and also because she wants a Mercedes to replace her aging Pontiac Firebird.
Shannon and Frances rehearse their call to Danny, but then Shannon figures they need a guy to make the call, as the mobsters won't take orders from girls. So, Frances puts on an accent. The women threaten Danny to give them a cut of the heist money. Their original demand is for 300K pounds, with instructions to put it in a trash bin in central park. Mason knows something is wrong and follows Danny. The girls were hiding in a bush, and luckily for them, a homeless man approaches the bin after Danny drops the money in it. Danny comes back and shoots the homeless man and Mason sees it. Witness tells the detectives about 2 women near the scene of the shooting.
Mason is livid with Danny and takes his phone, so he can talk to the callers directly. Frances makes the call again and demands 1 million pounds, but Mason maintains his cool and tells her to sod off and throws Danny's phone in the river. Kerrigan finds out about the ransom threat and wants Mason to eliminate the callers. Meanwhile Shannon and Frances figure out that they had heard Danny at the Mixer, the first time they had called him. They find Danny's address from the owner of Mixer, and break into Danny's apartment. while they are there, Mason arrives and Shannon hides, while Frances pretends to be a prostitute waiting for Danny. Mason pays Frances and asks her to leave. when Danny arrives, Mason shoots him dead and leaves. Shannon sees this and calls an ambulance.
Again, witnesses tell the police about 2 women entering Danny's flat before he was murdered. Danny survives but is in a coma in Shannon's hospital under her care. The girls now have Mason's number from Danny's diary and repeat their demand for a million pounds, but Mason demands a meeting. In response, the girls take out 40-foot advert near the parliament, congratulating Kerrigan and Mason on their latest job. Kerrigan panics and insults Mason. Mason agrees to pay but intends to blow them up. Mason loads the money in a case with a bomb. Frances directs Mason to board a train, and Shannon follows him.
Mason is instructed to throw the case out of the window when the train passes a specific bridge, and Frances will be waiting at the bottom. But when Frances gets there, a farmer (Hugh Bonneville) tells her that it is private land and tells her to leave. Frances picks the case and puts in the car, but the farmer gets into a fight with her, and pulls her away from the car. This is when Mason activates the bomb, which blows up Frances's car.
On the train, Kerrigan calls Mason and says that police are looking for 2 women, a blonde and a brunette. The dark one wears a diver's watch, and Mason notices Shannon right opposite to him, and her diver's watch. At the next station, Mason follows Shannon and kidnaps her, but Frances arrives in the farmer's car and manages to rescue Shannon, while Mason is distracted by the ticket collector. Mason has failed, and fears retribution from Kerrigan and prepares to leave England. Shannon and Frances enter his home and capture him. Shannon and Frances pretend to have a fallout and Shannon shoots Frances. This terrifies Mason for his own life, and he tells the location of the money to Shannon. But Barry arrives and helps Mason escape and capture Shannon. This is when Frances attacks.
A mass shoot-out occurs after it becomes clear that the girls have stolen all of Mason's guns and have bagged all the money. They manage to get away in the gang members' Porsche Boxster with the bags of money.
The police arrive after the girls leave and arrest Mason. They conclude that the gang members turned on each other. The hospital equipment is delivered to Shannon's hospital anonymously, as Shannon and Frances look on. They then drive off into London in the Mercedes CLK that they have bought with some of the money, happy that they have done the right thing.