movieId: 3826
title: Hollow Man
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0164052/
ratingValue: 
directors: Paul Verhoeven
actors: Elisabeth Shue, Kevin Bacon, Josh Brolin, Kim Dickens, Greg Grunberg, Joey Slotnick, Mary Randle, William Devane, Rhona Mitra, Pablo Espinosa

synopsis:
Scientist Dr. Sebastian Caine (Kevin Bacon) develops a serum that can make a subject invisible but has had difficulty in reversing the process. Working late one night on re-configuring the molecular model of the irradiated protein that will restore a test gorilla to visibility, he solves the problem and immediately reports his success to the top members of his staff. The normally docile gorilla, Isabelle, has become increasingly aggressive. When a mouse enters her cage, the seizes the small creature and viciously bites it's head off. When of of Sebastian's team, Dr. Matt Kensington (Josh Brolin), enters Isabelle's cage to prep her, she also bites him on the hand. He and Sebastian chase the gorilla through the tunnels of their research facility until they're able to drug her. Although work on the serum occupies nearly all of his waking hours, Sebastian becomes obsessed with his ex-girlfriend Dr. Linda McKay (Elisabeth Shue), who is a scientist on his team. Unbeknownst to him, she has become involved with , another member of their research group. Sebastian and his colleagues, who also include veterinarians Sarah Kennedy (Kim Dickens) and Carter Abbey (Greg Grunberg), and technicians Frank Chase (Joey Slotnick) and Janice Walton (Mary Randle), eventually enable the serum to work on the gorilla. In celebration, the team goes out for a fancy dinner, where Sebastian makes a toast to the finest research group in the world. To Sebastian, however, it feels like the end as reversion was the last big breakthrough. Instead of reporting his success to the military, Sebastian inexplicably lies to the oversight committee including his old teacher Dr. Howard Kramer (William Devane) and talks Linda and Matt into lying to the other four and going right into human testing. He tells Matt and Linda of his concern that the military will take over the project once it becomes successful. Sebastian, eager to move to human testing, offers himself as the subject. Despite a painful shift to transparency, the procedure is successful. After being unconscious for about 17 hours due to shock, Sebastian wakes up in pain, and recoiling from the ambient light, realizing that he can see through his eyelids. He then conducts some clinical tests on himself. But when it comes time to return to visibility after three days, the reversion fails and almost kills him. The researchers construct a latex mask for the scientist to wear around the lab, crudely approximating a human appearance. During this time, Matt discovers a promising way to make Sebastian visible again. A computer simulation, however, fails. Isolation and virtual imprisonment in the lab begin to wear on Sebastian's patience. Sebastian begins to show more aggressive and hostile behavior. Disobeying Carter and his own rules, he heads back to his apartment to grabs some books, CDs and Twinkies to take back to the lab. There, temptation gets the best of him, and he first spies on his neighbor (Rhona Mitra), and then sexually assaults her, while fully invisible. Linda shows up at the apartment and finds the mask and clothes, but no Sebastian. He returns to the lab just as the others were planning to go after him. Linda warns him that if he leaves again, she and Matt will tell Dr. Kramer what they did. Ignoring their threat, he assembles a device that runs a video loop of his heat signature in his quarters; the repeating image fools Frank into believing that Sebastian is still in the lab, when, in fact, he is out spying on Linda and Matt. Sebastian is angered when he sees Matt arrive at Linda's apartment and furiously breaks her bedroom window, alerting them to his presence. The two call Frank, who tells them that Sebastian is still in bed. Meanwhile, an enraged Sebastian returns to the lab, frustrated and angered at the thought of Linda and Matt together. Unable to stand the annoying barking of an invisible dog, Sebastian reassures the dog that he means no harm, then kills it with his bare hands by brutally smashing it against the cage wall. The team soon discover that they have been watching a recording and that Sebastian has been getting out without their knowledge. Linda and Matt go to Dr. Kramer's house and confess about their experiments with Sebastian. Dr. Kramer is disappointed and tells them that they are fired from the project. Dr. Kramer then attempts to call the military and inform them about Sebastian, but Sebastian has actually followed Linda and Matt to the house. Sebastian tricks his boss into leaving the house and then drowns him in his own swimming pool. The next day, Sebastian waits until all of the team is in the lab and then disables the phones and all of their elevator access codes except for his own. He removes his clothing and latex mask and, invisible, begins to hunt them all down. Janice falls behind while the team searches for Sebastian and he strangles her with an IV line. Linda, Matt, Sarah, Carter, and Frank learn what Sebastian is up to, realizing that they are the only ones who know what he has become, and therefore he is planning to kill them all. Linda, Sarah, and Frank hide in the lab while Matt and Carter take tranquilizer guns to go hunting for Sebastian in the empty hallways using Thermographic imaging goggles. Matt shoots at a heat signature that turns out to be from a steam vent. When Matt turns around, Carter has been yanked into the air by Sebastian, who is on top of a pipe. Matt tries to shoot him, but Sebastian throws Carter down toward a steel bar, which lacerates his carotid artery, causing massive blood loss. Sebastian almost kills Matt, but Linda drags him to safety. Sarah and Frank find the barely conscious and severely injured Carter. Sarah runs to the freezer to get blood for a transfusion, despite Frank's wishes. There, Sebastian corners her. She sprays the blood all over the room, waiting for him to make a move. The two fight and Sarah splashes him with her last pint of blood but she's too late. Sebastian tackles her and shoots her with her tranquilizer dart, then breaks her neck, saying he'd always admired her feisty attitude. Linda and Matt find Frank tending to a dying Carter, who bleeds to death. The three go to find Sarah and find her dead in the walk-in freezer. Frank sprays a fire extinguisher to expose Sebastian, but Sebastian sneaks up from behind and impales Frank with a crowbar. He then stabs Matt non-fatally with the hook. Sebastian locks Linda and Matt in the freezer, turns it all the way down and leaves them to freeze to death. Sebastian puts on his latex mask and clothing, spending much time to ensure he looks near-human. Meanwhile, Linda dresses Matt's wound with duct tape and then works out a way to escape from the freezer, constructing an electromagnet using a defibrillator and other lab equipment and uses it to open the door latch. She lights a fire to warm Matt and gathers the parts needed for a flamethrower. Sebastian goes to the lab and creates nitroglycerin to blow up the lab. He puts the nitro in a centrifuge, starts a timer and destroys the keyboard, so it can't be stopped. Just as he is entering the elevator to leave, Linda appears and fires her crude blowtorch at him. His latex and clothes burning away, Sebastian barely manages to escape the flames. Linda uses the flamethrower to start the ceiling sprinklers, partially revealing him. The two fight, Sebastian gains the upper hand and Matt appears and hits Sebastian with the crowbar. Sebastian recovers, but while wet and swinging the crowbar, it hits a circuit box and he is electrocuted. As the electricity courses through his body, Sebastian is rendered partially visible: his muscles, bones, and organs can be seen, but his skin remains invisible. Linda and Matt find the nitro about to explode, and decide to abandon the lab, climbing up the elevator shaft. The lab explodes, filling the shaft with fire and propelling the elevator car upward and back down, narrowly missing Linda and Matt. The two are almost out when Sebastian appears. He fights with Linda and kisses her one last time "for old time's sake" before she finally kills him by grabbing the elevator cable and knocking the car loose, sending Sebastian screaming into the inferno below. Eventually, both Linda and Matt emerge from the burning laboratory, and medics whisk them away in an ambulance.