movieId: 5435
title: Hombre
year: 1967
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0061770/
ratingValue: 
directors: Martin Ritt
actors: Paul Newman, Fredric March, Richard Boone, Diane Cilento, Cameron Mitchell, Barbara Rush, Peter Lazer, Margaret Blye, Martin Balsam, Skip Ward

synopsis:
John "Hombre" Russell (Paul Newman) patiently waits for a black stallion to lead its herd to a waterhole so he can trap the herd. He and his San Carlos Apache tribesmen will sell the horses to a local stagecoach line. Henry Mendez (Martin Balsam) tells John the stagecoach line is shutting down because of the railroad and urges John to return to his White Man's roots and take over a boarding house left to John by his deceased stepfather. John inspects the boarding house and tells the landlady, Jessie (Diane Cilento), that he intends to trade the place for an herd of horses in Contention and head to Bisbee, Arizona. Alex Favor (Fredric March) and his wife, Audra (Barbara Rush) shows up in town and charters one last stagecoach to Bisbee. Cicero Grimes (Richard Boone) bullies his way onto the passenger list to accompany John, Jessie and the Blakes. Henry is the stagecoach driver and decides to take the back road to Bisbee because of a suspicious group of men in the area. John is asked to ride on top with Henry when Alex finds out John was raised by the Apache. Bandits hold up the stagecoach and Cicero is their leader. They take Audra and thousands of dollars from Alex, who embezzled the money from the San Carlos Apaches. As the bandits leave, John kills two of them and recovers the saddlebag of cash. John and the passengers head back towards town through the mountains. They stop at an abandoned mining site and rest in a shack on a hill. The bandits show up at the mine and Cicero offers to trade Audra for the cash. John shoots Cicero during the negotiation. A bandit ties up Audra, leaving her in the hot sun to die. Audra begs for help and the passengers want to trade the money, but no one is brave enough to go down the hill, except for Jessie. John stops Jessie, gives the cash to a passenger with instructions to return it to the San Carlos Apaches. John heads downhill with the saddlebags. John cuts Audra loose. She heads up the hill, blocking a clear shot at bandit from the shack. The wounded Cicero confronts John and discovers the saddlebag is empty. Cicero, John and the bandit blaze away and all three are killed.