movieId: 2054
title: Honey, I Shrunk the Kids
year: 1989
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0097523/
ratingValue: 
directors: Joe Johnston
actors: Rick Moranis, Matt Frewer, Marcia Strassman, Kristine Sutherland, Thomas Wilson Brown, Jared Rushton, Amy O'Neill, Robert Oliveri, Carl Steven, Mark L. Taylor

synopsis:
Wayne Szalinski, a brilliant scientist and inventor, has been tirelessly working on a machine that can shrink and grow objects. His obsession with perfecting it concerns his wife Diane and their children, Amy and Nick. Next door, the Thompsons-Big Russ, his wife Mae, and their sons, Ron and Little Russ-prepare for a fishing trip. Little Russ is not as enthusiastic about the trip as his father. Just as Wayne heads to a conference, Ron accidentally hits a baseball into the Szalinskis' attic, activating the machine and blocking its laser. Ron and Nick venture into the attic to retrieve the ball, only to be shrunk by the machine. Amy and Little Russ meet the same fate when they search for their siblings. Wayne, meanwhile, is ridiculed at his conference for failing to demonstrate his machine's capabilities. Returning home, he finds the broken window and, in frustration, damages the machine further, inadvertently sweeping the shrunken children into a dust pan and trash bag. The tiny kids manage to escape and begin their perilous journey through the overgrown backyard. The parents, worried about their missing children, call off their plans and contact the police. Wayne figures out what happened but activates the sprinklers, nearly drowning Amy, who is saved by Little Russ. Wayne and Diane join forces to find the kids and eventually inform the Thompsons, who are initially skeptical. The shrunken kids encounter various dangers, including a bee and a scorpion. They also form a bond with a friendly ant they name Antie. After a series of adventures and near-misses, the kids manage to communicate with their parents, who then repair the machine. Finally, Big Russ volunteers for a test, successfully restoring himself and the children to their original sizes. By Thanksgiving, the Szalinskis and Thompsons have become close friends, celebrating with an oversized turkey and a giant dog biscuit for their loyal dog, Quark.