movieId: 466
title: Hot Shots! Part Deux
year: 1993
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0107144/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jim Abrahams
actors: Charlie Sheen, Lloyd Bridges, Valeria Golino, Richard Crenna, Brenda Bakke, Miguel Ferrer, Rowan Atkinson, Jerry Haleva, David Wohl, Mitchell Ryan

synopsis:
One night, an American special forces team invades Saddam Hussein's (Jerry Haleva) palace and a nearby prison camp to rescue captured soldiers from Operation Desert Storm and to eliminate Saddam. Saddam was in his palace enjoying a quiet evening as he watched US TV shows and preparing dinner with items stocked from any American grocery store. The special forces team manages to get into the palace compound without raising any alarms. They find the Iraqis prepared for them, and the entire rescue team is captured. Commander Arvid Harbinger was the only person who managed to escape from the mission. This failed operation turns out to be the latest in a series of rescue attempts which were foiled by the Iraqis, and consequently the advisers of President Thomas "Tug" Benson (Lloyd Bridges) suspect sabotage in their own ranks.
The Presidential elections are just 10 days away and Benson is rightfully worried that the latest setback will prove detrimental to him at the polls. Senator Gray Edwards (Mitchell Ryan) is Benson's rival. Benson's 20 points lead over Gray is gradually evaporating and he is under pressure to bring the situation under control. Colonel Denton Walters (Richard Crenna) suggests gaining the aid of war hero Sean "Topper" Harley (Charlie Sheen) for the next mission, but Topper has retired from the Navy and become a Buddhist in a small Thai village. Walters and Michelle Huddleston (Brenda Bakke), CIA, arrive and try to persuade him to come out of retirement in order to rescue the imprisoned soldiers and the previous rescue parties. Michelle heads covert operations to the Middle East and as such all rescue missions were operationally under her command. Topper is the son of U.S. Army Captain Benjamin L. Willard (Martin Sheen). Walters and Michelle find Topper at an illegal, underground street fight arena. Topper wins the fight, but the opponent tries to cheat and attack him from behind, Topper hits him in the groin so hard that his testicles come out of his mouth. The whole arena winces. Walters says that this time he himself will be leading the mission, and Michelle says that Topper is the best of what is left. Walters says that Topper is simply hiding to avoid confronting his memories of Ramada who dumped him and left him an enormous emotional scar.
Topper remembers how he was in love with Ramada, and they made plans to elope. The idea was to meet at a train station at an appointed time, but Ramada never made it, Topper initially refuses, but when yet another rescue mission (this one, in turn, led by Walters) goes awry, he agrees and is joined by Commander Arvid Harbinger (Miguel Ferrer) - the sole escapee of the rescue mission shown at the beginning of the film and whom Topper suspects to be the wanted saboteur, Williams (Michael Colyar), and Rabinowitz (Ryan Stiles).
Michelle is attracted to Topper and takes personal charge of the mission. Before leaving Michelle seduces Topper and has sex with him. Michelle says that she knows about Ramada as she read Topper's file. Meanwhile, Walters is tortured at the prison camp to sign a document against his own President, denouncing US activities in the Persian Gulf.
Michelle travels with Topper to their base in the Middle East. Harbinger says that the team has 11 hours to free the hostages before they are moved to a new location. They are parachuted into the jungle close to the location of the prison camp. Michelle had said that a contact would meet them at their landing site and lead them to the prison camp. Their contact turns out to be Topper's former love, Ramada Rodham Hayman (Valeria Golino), who guides them to a fishing boat that she prepared for their transportation. She and Topper reminisce, and he explains that she was married before she met him. When she was informed that her husband, Dexter (Rowan Atkinson), was still alive and a prisoner in Iraq, she volunteered to participate in his liberation, but was instructed to keep this strictly confidential, forcing her to break up with Topper just as they were ready to start a new life together (which was also the cause for his subsequent retirement). Topper's team proceeds to the prison camp disguised as river fishermen, but a confrontation with an Iraqi patrol boat thwarts them. When President Benson hears of the apparent failure of another mission, he takes matters into his own hands. However, Topper and his teammates reach the Iraqi hostage camp. In the course of the operation, the alarm is raised, and a gunfight ensues. Topper finds out that Harbinger is not the saboteur, but has merely lost faith in fighting, and manages to re-motivate him. After the prisoners are freed, Topper decides to rescue Dexter, who has been brought to Saddam's palace. While the squad evacuates the hostages, Topper enters Saddam's palace and runs into the dictator himself, who pulls out his machine pistol and commands Topper to surrender. Topper disarms Saddam, and they engage in a sword fight. President Benson arrives and orders Topper to rescue Dexter while Benson and Saddam and continue the duel. Benson defeats Saddam by spraying him with a fire extinguisher, upon which he and his dog solidify, crack, and melt, only to subsequently combine and reform as Saddam with his dog's head fur, nose, and ears. In the meantime, Topper manages to locate Dexter, but is forced to carry him out on his shoulders as the Iraqis have tied his shoelaces together. The squad heads back to the army helicopter, where Ramada, after a complicated revelation involving unfounded jealousy, reveals and arrests Michelle as the saboteur who betrayed the previous rescue attempts to the Iraqis. Dexter arrives with Topper and insists on taking a picture of him and Ramada but backs away too far and topples over a cliff. President Benson joins the escapees, and the evacuation team lifts off. Saddam is about to shoot down the chopper when Topper and Ramada get rid of extra weight in it by pushing a piano out the open door, which crushes him. Topper and Ramada kiss as they ride off into the sunset, although the chopper gets a little scorched from flying through the sun.