movieId: 6999
title: HouseSitter
year: 1992
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0104452/
ratingValue: 
directors: Frank Oz
actors: Steve Martin, Goldie Hawn, Dana Delany, Julie Harris, Donald Moffat, Peter MacNicol, Richard B. Shull, Laurel Cronin, Roy Cooper, Christopher Durang

synopsis:
Newton Davis (Steve Martin) is a struggling architect. Marty (Peter MacNicol) is Newton's friend at work. Newton is not able to progress at work as he is not social at work and is not able to articulate his ideas well to his boss, Moseby. He calls the firm's work repetitive and "cookie cutter". Newton corrects all of Marty's work, but Marty knows how to kiss ass, and climbs up the corporate ladder. After building his dream house for himself and his longtime girlfriend Becky (Dana Delany) in his hometown, he is crushed when she refuses to marry him. He is unable to bring himself to live in the house, and leaves it abandoned and with a debt he cannot afford. Three months later, Newton meets a waitress named Gwen (Goldie Hawn) at a Hungarian restaurant in Boston. Believing that she cannot speak English, he spills out his sob story about Becky and the abandoned house. After the restaurant closes for the night, Newton learns she merely pretended to be Hungarian, and can speak English. He walks her home, which turns out to be a small apartment upstairs at the restaurant. They end up having sex. The next morning, Gwen finds that Newton left in the middle of the night. However, he unintentionally left behind the drawing of the house he'd built for Becky. Interest piqued by the drawing; Gwen takes a bus ride out to see the house. She is charmed by it, and decides to move in. Gwen goes to the town's general store, where she charges her groceries to the "Newton Davis" account. When questioned about this, Gwen, who it becomes clear is a natural liar, says that she is Newton's wife. Gwen meets Becky (who was shopping at the same grocery store) and spins a lengthy romantic story about how they fell in love, which surprises and impresses Becky (Gwen says Newton was promoted at work as well and now has no debt). Gwen also meets Newton's parents (George Davis (Donald Moffat) & Edna Davis (Julie Harris)) (she was walking back home and ran into George at his garage sale), who are heartbroken that Newton got "married" without telling them, but Gwen manages to smooth things over with them with her charm. Edna gives Gwen a wedding gift (a check) to get her started, and then helps her with all the shopping. Soon after, Newton travels to his hometown and is shocked to see that his house is lived in. When he finds out what Gwen has done, he is initially furious, but he soon sees the potential in her being there. Gwen starts creating all sorts of opportunities for Newton: mending his relationship with his parents (George had a falling out with Newton), helping out with his career by befriending Newton's boss Winston Moseby (Roy Cooper) and highlighting his long-ignored talent, and making Becky jealous (Becky tells Newton that she didn't want to marry a dreamer, but listening to Gwen she can see the potential for great things in him).
Newton starts a rumor that Gwen slept with an older lover of hers and that's why their marriage is on the rocks. The parents want Newton to consider marriage counseling with Reverend Lipton (Christopher Durang). Newton and Gwen come to an agreement in which Gwen will help Newton win Becky, and in return she'll get all the furniture in the house. They stage a fight in front of Becky where Gwen reveals that Newton still has feelings for Becky.
Through their time together, Newton begins to rely more on Gwen beyond their agreement (Gwen meets Moseby at Newton's office and friends him up and invites him to their reception (with George and Edna insisted that Newton and Gwen should have)), and Gwen starts to feel attached to her life with Newton. Meanwhile, Newton manages to seduce Becky and is about to have sex with her, but she backs out as she doesn't want to be the other woman.
In the city Newton runs into one of Gwen's waitress friend Patty, and she reveals that Gwen became a compulsive liar in order to escape from what she feels is her own inadequate background, and that she has "changed" her life numerous times. Gwen told many lies to Newton to gain his sympathy. Gwen says that she wanted to see how it would be to live in Newton's picture. The film culminates with a reception held at the house in which the sub-plots of Newton's career, family and affections for Becky are brought together. Gwen hires 2 homeless bums Ralph and Mary (who used to live in front of her apartment) as her parents Bernie (Richard B. Shull) and Mary (Laurel Cronin). Newton demos his house and his original ideas to Moseby. Annoyed with Becky for her superior and suspicious attitude, Gwen confronts her in front of everyone, accusing her of trying to win Newton back. Gwen storms out of the house in tears, and Newton follows her, thinking it is still part of the plan. Outside alone, Newton praises Gwen for her brilliance, but Gwen replies that she wanted their marriage to work. Her feelings for him are apparent. Newton's boss gives him the promotion. Newton watches, confused, as Gwen leaves. Becky takes the opportunity to make a move on Newton and asks whether all of Gwen's elaborate stories were real. Newton answers that they were all true and chases after Gwen. Newton stops Gwen as she is about to board a bus to leave town. Although she resists, Newton follows her example and begins telling an outlandish romantic story of something they "did", which makes Gwen decide to stay. The film ends on the note of Newton and Gwen being happily married and living together in the house. As Newton and Gwen go into the house together, the final spoken words are of Newton saying, "I love you, Gwen" and Gwen replying, "Actually, it's Jessica."