movieId: 5279
title: Impromptu
year: 1991
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0102103/
ratingValue: 
directors: James Lapine
actors: Judy Davis, Hugh Grant, Mandy Patinkin, Bernadette Peters, Julian Sands, Ralph Brown, Georges Corraface, Anton Rodgers, Emma Thompson, Anna Massey

synopsis:
Since getting divorced, Baroness Amantine-Lucile-Aurore Dupin (previously Baroness Dudevant, the successful and notorious writer of sensational romance novels), now lives under the pseudonym George Sand, in Paris, has been in the habit of dressing like a man. In her romantic pursuit of the sensitive Chopin, whose music she fell in love with before meeting him, George/Aurora is advised that she must act like a man pursuing a woman, though also advised to avoid damaging his health by pursuing Chopin. With this advice Sand is deterred by a fellow countrywoman (the mistress of Franz Liszt) the Countess Marie d'Agoult, acting like she is smitten with Chopin to prevent a relationship between Chopin and Sand. Sand meets Chopin in 1836[3] in the French countryside house of the Duchess d'Antan, a foolish aspiring socialite who invites artists from Paris to her salon to feel cosmopolitan. Sand invites herself, hoping to meet Chopin, not knowing that a few of her former lovers are also in attendance. A small play is written by Alfred de Musset satirizing the aristocracy and specifically mocking their hostess, Chopin protests at his lack of manners, de Musset bellows and a fireplace explosion ensues. Chopin is briefly swayed by a beautifully written love letter ostensibly from d'Agoult, actually written by, and stolen from, Sand. Eventually Sand wins over Chopin when she proves that she wrote the letter, reciting it to him passionately. And after buying a copy of her memoir, he finds the text of the letter in the book. Chopin is then challenged to a duel by one of Sand's ex-lovers. He faints during the face-off. Sand finishes the duel for him and nurses him back to health in the countryside, solidifying their relationship. Near the end of the movie, Sand and Chopin dedicate a volume of music to the countess, although this only suggests that she has had an affair with Chopin, causing a falling-out with her lover Liszt. Sand and Chopin depart for Majorca, relieved to escape the competitive nature of artistic alliances and jealousies in Paris.