movieId: 2269
title: Indecent Proposal
year: 1993
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0107211/
ratingValue: 
directors: Adrian Lyne
actors: Robert Redford, Demi Moore, Woody Harrelson, Seymour Cassel, Oliver Platt, Billy Bob Thornton, Rip Taylor, Billy Connolly, Joel Brooks, Pierre Epstein

synopsis:
High school sweethearts David (Woody Harrelson) and Diana Murphy (Demi Moore) are a married couple. Diana was 19 when David proposed to her.
Diana works as a real estate agent, while David hopes to establish himself as an architect by designing their dream home. The couple invest everything they have in David's project, purchasing beachfront property in Santa Monica and beginning construction, but the recession leaves Diana without houses to sell and David without a job. David had borrowed from the bank to buy the land.
Now, he is in desperate need of $50,000 to save their land and their current house from being repossessed. David borrows $5000 from his father. They travel to Las Vegas, hoping they can win enough money to finance David's fantasy real estate project. David wins over $25,000 at craps. Reveling in their winnings, Diana assures David that she loves him regardless of the money. The next day, they lose everything at roulette; leaving the casino, they notice a crowd gathered to watch billionaire John Gage (Robert Redford) play baccarat. The previous day, Cage had seen Diana in a dress shop, trying on a really expensive cocktail gown. Cage had offered to buy the dress for Diana, but she refused.
Cage was already down $ 1 million playing baccarat. He draws another $1 million from the casino to shift to the craps table after Diana says that she doesn't like cards but fancies a game of dice.
Gage asks Diana to join him for good luck, and she makes a winning craps roll on his $1 million bet. As thanks, Gage insists on paying for the Murphys' stay, giving them a lavish hotel suite and a dress, he saw Diana admire the previous evening. Mr. Shackleford (Seymour Cassel) is Gage's chauffeur.
After an enjoyable evening together, Gage offers the couple $1 million to allow him to spend a night with Diana, but she and David refuse. After a difficult night, David and Diana decide to accept the offer, and a contract is signed the next day. Diana believes that the money can set them up for the rest of their lives. The contract is drawn by David's childhood friend, Jeremy (Oliver Platt), who is now a lawyer.
Leaving Diana with Gage, David has a change of heart and races to stop them but arrives just as they depart by helicopter. Gage flies Diana to a private yacht where he offers her a chance to void the deal and return to her husband if he loses a toss of his lucky coin. Gage calls it correctly and she spends the night with him. Although he had hoped to forget the whole incident, David grows increasingly insecure about his relationship with Diana, consumed with a fear that she remains involved with Gage. This insecurity is heightened by the fact Diana discovers that Gage has bought their home/property while it was going into foreclosure. Diana confronts Gage, who refuses to the property back to Diana and says that he wants Diana to work for him.
David believes that Diana was attracted to Gage all along and that she had sex with him for her own purposes. Diana claims that she only slept with Gage for the sake of their relationship.
Because of this tension on their relationship, David and Diana separate. Diana later tells David to keep all the money. Gage actively persists and renews his advances on Diana. Gage hires Diana's real estate agency to show him $10 million homes just so he can spend more time with her. Diana has free time on her hands and takes up a 2nd job teaching citizenship classes to immigrants.
Although she initially resists, Diana eventually consents to spending time with him and a relationship develops. David, meanwhile, realizes he cannot go on without the love of his life. When Diana files for a standing order, David makes one final attempt to win her back by signing the standing order papers and giving the million dollars away to charity. David bares his soul as to why he allowed the night to happen. It is clearly a turning point for both of them. Gage sees how Diana looks at David and recognizes that, even if she stayed with him, their relationship would never achieve the intensity she had with David. Later in the car with Gage, it is clear Diana has made up her mind to return to David when she says to Gage that they need to talk. Gage, realizing that she longs to return to David, makes up a story that she was only the latest in a long line of "million-dollar girls". Diana realizes that Gage is doing this to make it easy for her to leave, thanks Gage and returns to David. Before parting ways, he gives her his lucky coin, which she realizes is double-headed. Diana returns to the pier where David proposed to her seven years earlier, finding him there. Repeating their unique declaration of love, they join hands.