movieId: 7981
title: Infernal Affairs
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0338564/
ratingValue: 
directors: Wai Keung Lau, Alan Mak
actors: Andy Lau, Tony Leung Chiu-wai, Anthony Chau-Sang Wong, Eric Tsang, Kelly Chen, Sammi Cheng, Edison Chen, Shawn Yue, Elva Hsiao, Chapman To

synopsis:
Chan Wing-Yan (Tony Leung), a police cadet, is ostensibly expelled from the police academy, but is actually selected to be an undercover cop reporting only to Superintendent Wong Chi-Shing (Anthony Wong). Wong is the only person aware of his mission and true identity. Around the same time, Lau Kin-Ming (Andy Lau), a triad member, infiltrates the Hong Kong Police Force on the orders of a powerful gang boss, Hon Sam (Eric Tsang). Each mole has been planted by the rival organization to gain an advantage over the other side. Over the course of ten years, Chan experiences great stress from his undercover work while Lau quickly rises through the ranks in the police department. Using Morse code on a secret radio frequency (the transmitter is cleverly hidden in a plaster cast on his hand), Chan is able to relay data back to Wong that Sam is conducting a drug deal with the Thais. The money will be exchanged in an apartment, but drugs to be handed over a few miles off at sea. However, Lau alerts Sam by sending a SMS to all the cells in the area using his private data card, instead of the police network, giving him enough time to order his minions to dispose of the evidence. After the incident, both Wong and Sam are tasked with finding the moles in their respective organization. After this incident, Wong and Sam realize they each have a spy within their own organizations, and race each other to uncover the moles. By this time, both Chan and Lau are struggling with their double lives. Chan is afraid he is turning into an actual criminal while also fearing his cover will be blown. He begins undergoing sessions with psychiatrist Lee Sum-Yee and jokingly tells her that he is a cop. Meanwhile, Lau appreciates his life as a respected police officer and wants to sever his ties with the triad. Lau has been charged to dig out the mole in the police department by transferring him to the internal affairs department, with a promotion. Lau uses his new role to have Wong under constant observation, hoping to catch him meeting his mole. Chan follows Sam when he gets the details of all the men who were with him on that night and intends to pass them to Lau for investigation. The info is exchanged in a dark theatre. Chan follows Lau, without knowing it is Lau, but Lau has a lucky escape when Chan gets a call and is distracted. Wong intends to pull Chan out of undercover work for fear of his safety. Wong doesn't know that Lau has him under constant surveillance. When Wong goes to meet Chan at the usual meeting place. Sam learns about Wong's location from Lau and sends his henchmen to confront them. Chan escapes from the building while Wong tries to distract the gangsters but ends up being thrown off the roof to his death. Just then, the police show up and a shootout ensues. Henchman Keung, unaware that Chan is the mole, chauffeurs him away from the scene but succumbs to a gunshot wound he sustained earlier. When the news reports that Keung was apparently an undercover cop, Sam assumes he was the mole. Through this incident, Lau retrieves Wong's cell phone and contacts Chan. Both of them agree to foil a drug deal by Sam. The plan succeeds and many of Sam's men are arrested, while Lau betrays Sam and murders him. Everything seems to have returned to normal. Chan can revert to his true identity as a cop while Lau has erased his criminal connections. Meanwhile Lau finds the password for Chan's protected file from Chan. Chan doesn't know yet that Lau is the Mole, and then later deletes all records proving that Chan is a police officer.
However, back at police headquarters, Chan and Lau meet for the first time. As Lau prepares to reinstate Chan into the police force, Chan deduces that Lau was the mole and leaves promptly. He finds the papers that Sam had given Lau to help him identify the mole in the triad ranks. Realising what had happened, Lau takes possession of Chan's police identity file to use as leverage to dissuade Chan from exposing him. Chan meets with Lee, the only person left whom he can trust, and convinces her that he truly is a cop. Chan then sends a CD to Lau's address containing a recording of Lau's earlier meeting with Sam. Lau's fiance, Mary, inadvertently listens to the CD and discovers Lau's secret. Chan and Lau meet on the same rooftop where Wong was killed earlier. Chan disarms Lau and holds a pistol to his head as a rebuke to Lau's plea for forgiveness and request to remain a cop. Inspector B (Gordon Lam) arrives on the scene shortly and orders Chan to release Lau. Chan holds Lau as a hostage at gunpoint and backs into the lift, but upon moving his head from behind Chan is suddenly shot in the head by B, who then reveals to Lau that he is also a mole planted by Sam. As they take the lift down to the lobby, Lau kills B out of his desire to eradicate traces of his past, become a "good guy" cop, and end the mole hunt. Stepping out of the lift, Lau shows his identity card to the police to identify himself as one of them. Months after Chan's death, his psychiatrist Lee (Kelly Chen) (whom Chan used to frequent to keep himself from going completely Psycho) discovers records revealing Chan's true identity as an undercover police officer. B becomes a scapegoat for Lau as the real mole in the police force and the case is closed. Lau salutes Chan at his funeral. A flashback reaffirms the point at which Lau wished he had taken a different route in life. An alternate ending for the film was shot in order to comply with Article 25 (7) of the Chinese Film Administration Regulations specifying that films cannot propagate obscenity, gambling or violence, or abet to commit crimes. In the original Hong Kong ending, Lau concealed his true identity as a triad spy and identified himself as a police officer to avoid punishment. Therefore, the original ending was deemed to promote criminal activity and injustice, and an alternate ending was filmed to make the film suitable for mainland China. In the alternate ending, Inspector Cheung discovers evidence of Lau's criminal activity and immediately arrests him when he gets off the lift. This alternate ending was shown in mainland China and Malaysia.