movieId: 2720
title: Inspector Gadget
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0141369/
ratingValue: 
directors: David Kellogg
actors: Matthew Broderick, Rupert Everett, Joely Fisher, Michelle Trachtenberg, Andy Dick, Cheri Oteri, Mike Hagerty, Dabney Coleman, D.L. Hughley

synopsis:
John Brown (Matthew Broderick) is a security guard for a science lab operated by robotics expert Brenda Bradford (Joely Fisher) in Riverton, Ohio. He is the legal guardian of his 10-year-old niece, Penny (Michelle Trachtenberg), and they have a dog named Brain. He hopes to be a police officer, but is denied from the force by Chief Quimby (Dabney Coleman). The multi-millionaire tycoon Sanford Scolex (Rupert Everett) attacks the lab, stealing valuable equipment for the "Gadget Program" and murdering Brenda's father Artemus (Rene Auberjonois) in the process. John, who is smitten with her, gives chase despite his co-worker Thelma (Frances Bay) warning him that the chase wouldn't end well and trying to convince him to lay off by telling him he's off duty at the moment (he lets her know he's always on duty). The ensuing car crash brings a confrontation with Scolex, who uses a victory cigar explosive to blow up John and his beloved Chevette, leaving him for dead. But in the fiery blast, a bowling ball in the front seat of his car flies into the air and through the sunroof of Scolex's limo, landing directly on and rapidly smashing his left hand. John, presumably deceased, is rushed to intensive care by Brenda. John is revived and rebuilt using electronic parts and is dubbed "Inspector Gadget". He is given lessons by a meditating guru at the lab in relaxing his body and getting a firm grip on the workings of his gadgets, which ends in failure when he accidentally grasps the guru's testicles with a little too much force. Despite some previous success in capturing two criminals, he is assigned with many community service jobs, such as crossing guard, litter patrol, and rescuing kittens. Meanwhile, Scolex's assistant Kramer (Andy Dick) builds a new, mechanical claw to replace his hand, and Scolex nicknames himself "Claw". Unlike the original cartoon series, his face is visible. He then tries using the stolen equipment to move a robot, but fails. When his henchman Sykes (Michael G. Hagerty) calls it a lemon, he has him put it on (at maximum voltage). But this fails too (simply frying Sykes) and he concludes that he needs Brenda's help. He hires her as his robotics specialist (expressing lust for her in the process), and is amused to discover that John is the "lucky duck they plucked for the Gadget Program." Later, he gets a copy of Gadget's chip and inserts it into the earlier robot, which Kramer makes to look like John (except with very noticeable false teeth). Scolex names it RoboGadget. John investigates Scolex, but while Gadget sees a moisture alarm, he overlooks an audio one and is captured in the process. After informing him about his plans, Claw takes his control chip and destroys it, leaving him "dead". He then sends RoboGadget to destroy the city (and "have some fun"). While Sykes dumps Gadget's body in the junkyard, Brenda discovers through information given to her by RoboBrenda (a robot clone of herself, also sent to replace her) that Scolex murdered her father. She and Penny race to save John. They discover them in the junkyard, and after Brenda kisses his cheek, he miraculously returns to life; showing that even though he is part machine, he still has a human heart. After a chase through the city between the Gadgetmobile (voiced by D. L. Hughley) and Scolex's car, John battles RoboGadget on the Roberto Clemente Bridge. RoboGadget, despite his gadgets being more war machine rather than detective work (including a clip-on tie), quite literally loses his head (it falls off after John pulls a pin out of the back of RoboGadget's neck), and he tosses it in the river. Activating the "Gadget Chopper", he flies to the roof of Scolex Industries, where Scolex prepares to make his escape with Brenda when Gadget comes around. While the helicopter hat is disabled and Gadget is lifted over a high drop, he launches the inside of a mechanical pencil into the helicopter's cockpit, hitting the close button on Claw's claw and crushing the joystick. Brenda and John crash to the plaza below, where police await to arrest him for all of RoboGadget's crimes. Claw and his cat try to escape, but is caged in by the GadgetMobile. A confused Sykes, brought to the light by Penny, confesses alongside her that RoboGadget was impersonating the real Gadget. John is made a hero in Riverton and earns Chief Quimby's respect. As Brenda and Gadget walk away, Scolex yells out, "Arrivederci, Gadget! This is not good-bye. I'll get you next time, Gadget! I'll get you!" The film closes with Brenda kissing Gadget, with fireworks coming from his right foot as a sign of arousal, and with the Gadgetmobile chasing a red Volkswagen. The credits show RoboBrenda doing a crazed aerobics class, the headless RoboGadget running around town, Sykes being congratulated at a minion recovery group, Penny speaking to Brain (when he responds, he uses Don Adams' voice), and the Gadgetmobile's computer screen thanking the audience for watching his movie, even though they called it Inspector Gadget. He says things are working out with the red VW, whom he married at a drive-thru chapel. He's also expecting a sub-compact he's thinking of calling, "The Love Bug", which is in no way a plug for the Walt Disney Company, although he's sure the little one will say, "I'm going to Disneyland!", when he's old enough.