movieId: 1498
title: Inventing the Abbotts
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119381/
ratingValue: 
directors: Pat O'Connor
actors: Joaquin Phoenix, Billy Crudup, Will Patton, Kathy Baker, Jennifer Connelly, Michael Sutton, Liv Tyler, Joanna Going, Barbara Williams, Alessandro Nivola

synopsis:
The lives of two closely linked families dangerously intersect in the small Illinois town of Haley in the 1950s. Two brothers, J.C. (Billy Crudup) and Doug Holt (Joaquin Phoenix) are being raised by their single, working mother. Their father was a reckless risk-taker and lost his life after driving on a frozen lake over a bet made with Lloyd Abbott (Will Patton). Lloyd has just acquired their father's patent for a steel file-drawer in return for almost nothing, consequently becoming one of the town's wealthiest and most admired citizens. Lloyd and his distant wife, Joan, are the parents of three beautiful daughters, Alice (Joanna Going), Eleanor (Jennifer Connelly) and Pamela (Liv Tyler). The parties for the girls' birthdays and other milestones are among the most anticipated events in the town. Thinking his father's demise was Lloyd's mistake, and that the patent was unfairly stolen from his family, J.C. seeks revenge on the Abbotts through the calculated seduction of the Abbott daughters. First he hooks up with Eleanor, the wildest of the three. As a consequence of their relationship, she was sent away to a mental hospital, and will end up never returning to Haley again. Meanwhile, Doug, who initially admires and worships his brother's libertine lifestyle, begins harboring reciprocated feelings for the youngest, virginal daughter, Pamela. The two awkwardly circle each other, but she protests his early, fumbling sexual advances. During a summer home from college, J.C. seduces the oldest daughter, Alice, who was divorcing her abusive husband after the birth of their daughter. The relationship between J.C. and Alice also leads to heartbreak, as well as to Lloyd taking extreme measures to keep them apart. Among the complicated dynamics brought about by their siblings, Doug and Pamela meet again by chance while attending college at the University of Pennsylvania and Bryn Mawr College, respectively. However, their reunion is once again thwarted by the reveal that J.C. has also in the meantime began a sexual relationship with Pamela. This creates a severe fracture between the two brothers. When Doug and J.C. come back home for their mother's funeral, they find the document confirming their late father had sold his patent for a 1937 DeSoto Coupe convertible. This knowledge doesn't comfort J.C., who still finds this deeply unfair that they were denied the wealth of the Abbotts for arbitrary reasons. Eventually, Doug convinces Lloyd of his true love for Pamela and the two finally found each other for good. The adult Doug who's narrating this story recounts how they married one year later and eventually gave birth to two daughters.