movieId: 2392
title: Jack Frost
year: 1998
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0141109/
ratingValue: 
directors: Troy Miller
actors: Michael Keaton, Kelly Preston, Joseph Cross, Mark Addy, Andrew Lawrence, Eli Marienthal, Will Rothhaar, Mika Boorem, Benjamin Brock, Taylor Handley

synopsis:
Jack Frost is the lead singer in a rock band based in the fictional town of Medford, Colorado. His focus on his music and hopes that the band will sign a record deal leads him to neglect his family, including his 11-year-old son Charlie. Charlie and Jack build a snowman together, and Jack gives Charlie his best harmonica, which he bought the day Charlie was born. He jokingly tells Charlie that it is magical and that Jack will be able to hear it wherever he is. Jack promises his wife Gabby that he will attend Charlie's hockey game, but misses it in favor of recording a new hit song. To make up for it, Jack then promises to take his family on a Christmas trip to the mountains but is then called in on a gig that could make or break his career. While traveling to the gig, Jack realizes his mistake and borrows his band mate's car to take the family to the mountains. Unfortunately, Jack crashes the car in a snowstorm, and is killed. A year later, Charlie has fallen into depression over his father's death. One night, he makes another snowman that bears as much resemblance to Jack as he can remember and plays Jack's harmonica just before going to sleep. The harmonica is magical after all, as it revives Jack, transferring his spirit into the snowman. Jack attempts to greet Charlie, but terrifies him instead. After Jack uses his nickname "Charlie boy", Charlie realizes that the snowman is his father. Jack reconnects with Charlie and teaches him the values that he never got when he was alive. Jack convinces Charlie to rejoin his hockey team instead of continuing to grieve over his death. Meanwhile, Mac continues to be a friend of the family, while also becoming a father figure to Charlie. On a warm Christmas Eve, Jack begins melting and struggles to get to Charlie's hockey game but makes it. Afterward, Charlie decides to take Jack to the mountains where it is colder, but has a difficult time convincing Gabby. Jack and Charlie arrive at the isolated cabin that the family was going to stay at for Christmas before Jack's death. Jack calls Gabby, nonchalantly asking her to come to the cabin to pick up Charlie; Gabby is shocked, but recognizes his voice and obliges. Jack tells a disheartened Charlie that he must leave. When Gabby arrives, the snowman shell dissipates, revealing a human Jack in an ethereal form. Jack tells Charlie he will always be with him and, after bidding his wife and son farewell, returns to the afterlife.