movieId: 1393
title: Jerry Maguire
year: 1996
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0116695/
ratingValue: 
directors: Cameron Crowe
actors: Tom Cruise, Cuba Gooding Jr., Renée Zellweger, Kelly Preston, Jerry O'Connell, Jay Mohr, Bonnie Hunt, Regina King, Jonathan Lipnicki, Todd Louiso

synopsis:
Jerry Maguire (Tom Cruise) is a glossy 35-year-old sports agent working for Sports Management International (SMI). After criticism from an injured player's son triggers a life-altering epiphany, he writes a mission statement about perceived dishonesty in the sports management business and how he believes that it should be operated. He states his desire to work with fewer clients to produce a better, more caring personal relationship with them.
He distributes copies of it, entitled "The Things We Think and Do Not Say: The Future of Our Business". His co-workers are touched by his honesty and greet him with applause, but the management sends Bob Sugar (Jay Mohr), Maguire's protege, to fire him. Jerry and Sugar call all of Jerry's clients to try to convince them not to hire the services of the other. Jerry speaks to Arizona Cardinals wide receiver Rod Tidwell (Cuba Gooding, Jr.), one of his smallest clients who is disgruntled with his pay. Rod tests Jerry's resolve through a very long telephone conversation, which culminates in Show Me the Money!". By the conclusion of the conversation, Bob has managed to persuade the rest of Jerry's clients to stick with SMI. Frank "Cush" Cushman (Jerry O'Connell), a superstar quarterback prospect from Southern Methodist University expected to be #1 in the NFL Draft, also stays with Jerry after he makes a visit to the Cushman home. Frank's father agrees but insists on a handshake deal instead of a signed contract because "his word is strong as oak". Leaving the office, Jerry announces he will start his own agency and asks if anyone is willing to join him, to which only 26-year-old single mother Dorothy Boyd (Renée Zellweger) agrees. The two had previously bumped into each other in the airport and Boyd had told Maguire personally how inspiring she found his "memo." Jerry travels to the NFL Draft with Cush and convinces Rod to come too, to meet representatives of other NFL teams. Though Rod at first feels neglected compared to the superstar Cush, Sugar contacts Matt Cushman (Beau Bridges), Cush's dad, while Jerry is in the lobby with Rod. Bob Sugar persuades Cush and his racist father to sign with SMI behind Jerry's back after seeing Jerry spend time to introduce Rod, "an African American man", to other football executives. Jerry is devastated and turns to his fiance Avery (Kelly Preston) for support, but she rebukes him, and he breaks up with her. He then turns to Dorothy, becoming closer to her young son, Ray (Jonathan Lipnicki), and eventually starts a relationship with her. However, without any money coming in, Dorothy contemplates moving to San Diego as she has a secure job offer there. Jerry concentrates all his efforts on Rod, now his only client, who turns out to be very difficult to satisfy. In bad need of money, Jerry calls in a favor to get a contract extension from Rod's current team, the Arizona Cardinals, but receives a low-ball offer. Rod and his wife decide to pass on the offer despite Jerry's warning that if he gets injured, he will receive nothing. Over the next several months, the two direct harsh criticism towards each other with Rod claiming that Jerry is not trying hard enough to get him a contract while Jerry claims that Rod is not proving himself worthy of the money for which he asks. This culminates in the famous phrase "Help me, help you" that seems to finally get across to Rod to stop complaining and to start playing his heart out. Jerry marries Dorothy to help them both stay afloat financially and to keep her from moving away. He is emotionally and physically distant during the marriage but is clearly invested in becoming a father to Ray.
Rod takes Jerry's advice to prove he is worthy of his contract. He is playing well, and his team is winning. Jerry's marriage with Dorothy deteriorates as they struggle financially, with Dorothy losing hope that it will work out.
Although Dorothy is in love, she breaks up with him because she believes he does not love her. Before the start of December 25, 1995, ABC Monday Night Football game between the Cardinals and the Dallas Cowboys, Sugar attempts to steal Rod, but is rebuked by Rod and Jerry. The two reconcile soon after. During the game Rod catches the winning touchdown that secures a spot for the Cardinals in the playoffs but appears to receive a serious injury in the process. After a few scary minutes, he regains consciousness and celebrates with a dance for the wildly cheering crowd. Afterwards, Jerry and Rod embrace in front of other athletes and sports agents and show how their relationship has progressed from a strictly business one to a close personal one, which was one of the points Jerry made in his mission statement. Jerry then flies back home to meet Dorothy. He walks in and, in front of her friends and sister Laurel (Bonnie Hunt) says "Hello." He then speaks for several minutes, telling her that he loves her and wants her in his life, ending with the statement, "You complete me." Dorothy's reply to Jerry is, "You had me at hello". Rod later appears on Roy Firestone's sports show. Unbeknownst to him, Jerry has secured him an $11.2 million contract with the Cardinals that will allow him to finish his pro football career in Arizona. The visibly emotional Rod proceeds to thank everyone and extends warm gratitude to Jerry. Jerry speaks with several other pro athletes, some of whom have read his earlier mission statement and respect his work with Tidwell.
Jerry, Dorothy and Ray walk in the park and stumble across a Little League baseball game. When the ball lands near them, Ray throws it back; a surprised Jerry then comments on his natural throwing ability (and possible future in sports), much to Dorothy's dismay.