movieId: 1359
title: Jingle All the Way
year: 1996
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0116705/
ratingValue: 
directors: Brian Levant
actors: Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sinbad, Phil Hartman, Rita Wilson, Robert Conrad, Martin Mull, Jake Lloyd, Jim Belushi, E.J. De La Pena, Laraine Newman

synopsis:
Howard Langston (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a workaholic mattress salesman in Minneapolis, who does not find time for his wife, Liz (Rita Wilson), and his young son, Jamie (Jake Lloyd) - especially when compared to next door "super dad" divorcee, Ted Maltin (Phil Hartman), who continually puts Howard in a bad light. Ted harbors unrequited feelings for Liz. Johnny (E.J. De La Pena) is Ted's son. Howard is working late in office attending to his customers even in Christmas week. Howard is late getting out of the office, even though his assistant reminds him that it is only 20 minutes to go for Jamie's karate class. Howard gets stuck in a massive traffic jam. Howard takes the carpool lane and is given a ticket by officer Hummell.
Since Howard is not there, Ted ends up accompanying Liz and Jamie at the karate event. Ted is a favorite with the school moms, and is in demand as handyman to fix stuff like the screen doors, porch lights etc.
By the time Howard reaches school, everybody had left, and he returns home. Howard finds Ted putting up Christmas lights on his roof. After missing Jamie's karate class, Howard resolves to redeem himself by fulfilling Jamie's ultimate Christmas wish: getting an action figure of Turbo-Man, a popular children's TV superhero on Christmas Eve. The toy has features such as arms & legs that move, boomerang shooter, rock & roar jet pack, voice activator with 5 different phrases including "its Turbo Time".
Liz actually asked him to buy one two weeks earlier, which Howard forgot about. On Christmas Eve, Howard sets out to buy the toy but finds that every store has sold out and every parent is looking for it. Along the way, Howard meets Myron Larabee (Sinbad), a postal worker dad with a rival ambition, and the two soon become bitter competitors in their race for the action figure.
Also, during his search for the toy, Howard keeps running into Officer Alexander Hummell (Robert Conrad), a traffic cop who had earlier pulled him over for a traffic violation. After several failed attempts to find the toy in a store, Howard attempts to buy a Turbo-Man from a Mall of America Santa (James Belushi), the leader of a band of counterfeit toy makers. When he accuses the Santa of undermining the values of Christmas, Howard ends up in a brawl with the gang, barely escaping when the police raid their warehouse. Howard narrowly escapes arrest by posing as an undercover officer. Exhausted at his failure and out of fuel, Howard goes to a diner and calls home, intending to tell Liz the truth. Jamie answers the phone but keeps reminding him of his promise to be home in time for the annual Holiday Wintertainment Parade. Losing his patience, Howard yells at Jamie, and he feels guilty and depressed after Jamie scolds him for not keeping his promises. Howard finds Myron at the diner and they share their experiences over coffee, where Myron tells him of his resentment towards his own father for failing to get him a Johnny Seven OMA for Christmas. During their conversation, Howard and Myron overhear a radio station advertising a competition for a Turbo Man doll.
The ensuing fight between them results in the diner's phone getting disconnected, forcing them to race to the radio station on foot, where the DJ reveals to them that the competition was actually for a Turbo Man gift certificate. The police are alerted (the DJ having earlier called them when Howard and Myron showed up).
They are nearly arrested but Myron bluffs the police into backing off by threatening them with a package (which he claims is a homemade bomb, unaware that it really is one). Officer Hummell tries to open it, and it blows up in his face. After his car is stripped by thieves, Howard is ultimately forced to return home empty-handed. Upon seeing Ted in his house placing the star on his tree, Howard gets angry and attempts to steal the Turbo-Man doll from Ted's house, destined for Ted's son Johnny (E.J. De La Pena), but changes his mind. Before he has a chance to replace the doll, he is caught by Ted and a disappointed Liz. Howard is left alone while his family goes to the Christmas parade with Ted and Johnny. Howard decides to join his family at the city's Wintertainment Parade, as he promised his son he would do.
After dropping off Jamie and Johnny, Ted attempts to seduce Liz, but she rejects him by hitting him in the face with a thermos of alcoholic eggnog for attempting to sabotage her marriage. On arrival at the parade, Howard runs into Officer Hummell and accidentally drenches him with hot coffee. In the ensuing chase, Howard runs into a preparations room and is mistaken as a live action Turbo-Man stuntman in the parade. As the "real" Turbo-Man, he uses the opportunity to present the coveted limited-edition Turbo-Man doll to his son in the crowd.
But before he can recognize his father, Jamie is chased around the parade by Myron who is dressed as Turbo-Man's arch enemy Dementor having caught and tied up the real actor (Richard Moll) while Howard does his best to keep up, though with little skill in controlling the Turbo-Man equipment. Despite Howard's pleas for Myron to stop, a long chase ensues, involving a jet-pack flight. Myron grabs the toy from Jamie but is cornered by the police, while Howard rescues Jamie. Howard reveals himself to his family and apologizes for his shortcomings. When Ted arrives at the scene of the parade, Johnny points Howard as Turbo Man to him, which makes Ted flee and dragging Johnny in fear and humiliation. Officer Hummell returns the toy to Jamie and thanks Howard (as Turbo Man) with a job on the force, to which Howard returns the thanks and - much to Hummel's shock - apologizes to him for the previous confrontations. Myron is handcuffed and sadly laments about not having a toy for his own son; Jamie overhears him and decides to give the toy to Myron for his son, proclaiming his father as his true hero. Touched by Jamie's act of kindness, Myron apologizes for his earlier discrepancies. The crowd carries Howard away in a hero's fashion as Myron, Liz, and Jamie happily watch. Howard finishes decorating their Christmas tree later that night by putting the star on top. However, after kissing and hugging, Liz asks Howard what he got her for Christmas, and he realizes with a shock that he forgot her gift.