movieId: 4991
title: Joe Somebody
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0279889/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Pasquin
actors: Tim Allen, Julie Bowen, Kelly Lynch, Greg Germann, Hayden Panettiere, Patrick Warburton, Jim Belushi, Ken Marino, Wolfgang Bodison, Cristi Conaway

synopsis:
Joe Scheffer (Tim Allen) is a recently divorced single parent, and a talented audio/visual specialist at STARKe Pharmaceuticals. Joe has divorced ex-wife Callie (Kelly Lynch). Joe and Callie have a 12-year-old daughter named Natalie. Callie is dating Rick (Ken Marino), an actor.
Natalie has to spend weekends with Callie and Rick and absolutely hates it as Callie is vegan. Joe is ignored by almost everybody at work. Pat Chilcutt (Robert Joy) the head of Joe's department at STARKe Pharmaceuticals. Joe has designed the audio/video campaign for the upcoming Bring Your Daughter to Work Day. Pat keeps ignoring Joe who has been asking for a long overdue promotion. Joe has also been asking for company sponsored tickets to the local team the T'Wolves that his daughter wants to go and watch. Joe is a nice person at heart, and he helps a struggling Meg Harper, the Wellness coordinator to put up the banners at her stall in the office. Meg remembers Joe as he did a video for her department last year.
Despite everything, Joe is a hero to his daughter Natalie who thinks the world of him. Joe wanted to be a writer, but somehow ended up being a video communications specialist. Natalie knows that Joe has written a play, and she thinks it is great. One day, which is also bring your daughter to work day, Joe pulls into the parking lot at work to find his co-worker Mark McKinney (Patrick Warburton) parking in a spot that has been reserved for those who have worked for the company for ten years.
However, McKinney has only worked there for seven years. The car park is full, and Joe would have to park far away to the West side of the parking lot to find space. Joe believes that he has earned his parking spot at the company.
When Joe confronts McKinney about this, McKinney assaults him in front of his young daughter Natalie (Hayden Panettiere). McKinney slaps Joe in front of Natalie and the other onlookers in the car park. Joe is humiliated and eventually retreats, and he takes Natalie to school instead. Joe avoids seeing Natalie for 2 days and even she can understand that he is hurting.
Jeremy, a company executive, wants Meg to handle the situation with Joe, as he is afraid that Joe might sue the company for failure to create a safe working environment, or causing emotional distress. Jeremy believes that Joe is a loser as his wife left him, he was passed over for a promotion and now he was slapped in the company parking lot. Meg sees Joe as a devoted father, a hard worker, with nothing but positive reviews.
Jeremy sends Meg to Joe's house to get him back to work as it has been 3 days that he didn't turn up. Meg offers Joe an assigned parking space at the office and wants him to come back to work. Joe refuses to return to work. Meg says that McKinney has been suspended from work and wants him to come back for just a few hours every day.
Joe falls into a state of self-pity until Meg Harper (Julie Bowen), the Wellness Coordinator at STARKe, accidentally ignites a fuse in him when, in a fit of frustration, she asks Joe, "What do you want?" Joe is suddenly stirred to action by this question, and decides he wants a rematch to reclaim his dignity and self-respect, which he felt McKinney took from him. After issuing the challenge to McKinney, Joe begins to find himself becoming very popular around the office for his bravery. McKinney was considered to be a jerk and the office workers are happy that somebody had the courage to stand up to him. Everybody recognizes him and wants to be his friend. He is invited to the exclusive club 13 by Cade (Wolfgang Bodison), who befriends Joe after he challenges Mckinney.
Joe also gets glances from the office hottie Abby Manheim (Cristi Conaway). Joe gets himself a new wardrobe. Meg and Natalie, however, do not feel fighting McKinney will solve anything, and both attempt to tell Joe as much, to no avail.
Natalie is a talented writer at school, was a straight A student, and won every competition that she participated in. Yet, lately, her performance has been slipping and she is missing school as she has to handle the things at work. Joe seeks out the aid of an ex B-movie star-turned-martial arts instructor named Chuck Scarett (Jim Belushi) to teach him to defend himself. Since time is limited, Chuck teaches Joe some basic defense techniques and to use his opponents strengths against himself.
Things seem to finally be going right for Joe, as he has begun to see Meg and has even been given a promotion at work he had been hoping for. When Meg realizes Jeremy (Greg Germann), a colleague she works closely with for the company (who also happens to be attracted to her), only gave Joe a non-existing position at the office to prevent him from suing the company, she resigns in fear that she might one day have to demote or even fire Joe. Meg again tries to persuade Joe not to fight McKinney, and finally gives him an ultimatum: if he does not call off the fight with McKinney, their relationship is over. The day of the fight, Joe makes it all the way to the 10-year parking lot where the brawl is to take place. However, he finally realizes it would be immature to fight, and not worth the price he would have to pay. When Joe tells McKinney and his other co-workers the fight is off, McKinney offers him an apology, which Joe accepts. Joe then goes and makes up with Meg for not understanding her reasoning before.