movieId: 4611
title: Johnny Handsome
year: 1989
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0097626/
ratingValue: 
directors: Walter Hill
actors: Mickey Rourke, Ellen Barkin, Elizabeth McGovern, Morgan Freeman, Forest Whitaker, Lance Henriksen, Scott Wilson, David Schramm, Yvonne Bryceland, Peter Jason

synopsis:
Petty career crook John Sedley (Mickey Rourke) is mocked by others as Johnny Handsome because of his deformed face. His knack for observing and planning gets him and his best friend Mikey Chalmette (Scott Wilson) into a robbery of a collectable coin store with Sunny Boyd (Ellen Barkin) and Rafe Garrett (Lance Henriksen) but the job goes sideways. Rafe and Sunny double cross the others, killing everyone else in the job except Johnny, and leaving him to take the blame. Johnny goes to prison and is warned that since this is his second time convicted for a felony, the next time makes him a third-time loser and he will be given the maximum sentence. In prison, Johnny is accosted and knifed by two other inmates and sent to the hospital where he is visited by Lt. A.Z. Drones (Morgan Freeman) who informs him that Rafe paid to have him killed and urges Johnny to give evidence to take him down. Lt. Drones also informs Johnny that, on the inside, he is still a hardened criminal and always will be. While Johnny recuperates, enlightened Dr. Steven Fisher (Forrest Whitaker) believes that once he can repair Johnny's cleft palette and reconstruct his face, he can change his life because the world will see him in a dissimilar more positive way. Lt. Drones tears down the doctor's ideas insisting that someone who is bad will continue being bad regardless of his looks. Johnny agrees to the medical procedures and has his impaired speech and face changed and reenters society with a parole agreeing to continue psychological observation from the doctor. Johnny gets a job on a construction crew where he meets Donna McCarty (Elizabeth McGovern) who sees something special in him, but he pushes her away planning his revenge on those crooks that have double crossed him. Johnny approaches Rafe and Sunny with a job for a robbery of the construction site and things go along fine until suspicions cause curiosity. Johnny cannot forget his sworn revenge against Sunny and Rafe, joining them for the job, which ends violently for them all.