movieId: 4821
title: Joy Ride
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0206314/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Dahl
actors: Steve Zahn, Paul Walker, Leelee Sobieski, Jessica Bowman, Stuart Stone, Basil Wallace, Brian Leckner, Mary Wickliffe, McKenzie Satterthwaite, Dell Yount

synopsis:
Lewis is talking to Venna on the phone. Both are at different colleges. She tells Lewis she and her boyfriend broke up. She wishes he had a car so he could drive across the country and pick her up. He lies and says he has a car. The next day he buys a used car. He calls his mom to let her know his plans to pick up Venna. She tells him his brother, Fuller called. He got arrested again. Lewis agrees to make a stop and pick up his brother from jail. He gets a ticket on the way to get his brother for an illegal traffic move and a broken tail light. He picks up his brother and they start driving to pick up Venna. Fuller pays a guy $40 at a gas station to put in a CB radio. They start playing around on it. Fuller decides to have some fun and has Lewis pretend to be a call girl named "Candy Cane" looking for a guy for the night. Fuller pretends to be the guy getting a date. Another trucker named "Rusty Nail" calls out to "Candy Cane". Fuller makes Lewis pretend with the trucker for fun. They stop at a motel for the night. Fuller has words with a rude patron of the motel because he's being a jerk to the night worker. He gets back in the car with Lewis. "Rusty Nail" calls out to "Candy Cane" again. Lewis tells him to meet her at their motel at midnight with pink champagne in the room the rude patron is in, which is next door to theirs. Room 17. At midnight they see a man walk up to the other guys room and knock. They hear a commotion and a thud. Lewis calls the front desk to make sure everything next door is OK. The next morning the cops ask them questions about what happened because the man next door to them got attacked. According to the cops his jaw was ripped off and he was thrown onto the highway. He's in a coma. They come clean to the cops. The cops are angry and tell them to leave their state and never come back. They get in the car and start driving. They hear "Rusty Nail" calling out for "Candy Cane". Fuller tells him to go to a different channel so they can talk. Fuller asks the guy what his deal is. He says he's looking for "Candy Cane". They admit she doesn't exist and it was a joke. He tells them to apologize. Fuller refuses and calls the trucker a bunch of names. The trucker is mad and points out they should get their broken tail light fixed. They're scared. They take an exit really fast because they're almost out of gas. Fuller starts to pump gas and Lewis goes in to call the cops they spoke to before and pay. A guy in an ice truck stops and walks into the gas station while Fuller is pumping gas. Lewis runs out and they get in and speed off thinking he's "Rusty Nail". The guy runs out and starts driving after them. They get stuck down a dead end stop. The trucker comes up to their window. They're yelling at him to leave them alone. He holds up a credit card that Lewis left at the gas station. They thank the guy and breathe a sigh of relief. They get out of the car as the ice trucker backs up to get back on the high way. ""Rusty Nail" drives his diesel truck through the ice truck and destroys it. They get in the car and speed off and almost hit a tree head on. They turn at the last minute and hit the side of their car on the tree. "Rusty Nail" turns on his lights and he's right next to their car. He slowly starts to accelerate and ram their car into the tree. They're screaming and Fuller grabs the CB radio and apologizes. He tells the trucker it was just for a joke for laughs. They were just playing with him. He says "Well, I was just playing with you". He stops his truck and backs up.
They get on the road and dump the CB radio out the window. They pick up Venna. She introduces them to her roommate, Charlotte, who is driving off to go home. They start driving with Venna and go to a bar. Venna is approached by a man that starts harassing her. Fuller makes a commotion and they run off to Vennas room. Fuller and Lewis go to their room. Lewis falls asleep immediately and Fuller goes back to Vennas room to drink some more. They're drinking and laughing. Back in his room, Lewis wakes up to the phone ringing. It's "Rusty Nail" asking "I thought there was no Candy Cane". Lewis comes fully awake and says there isn't. "Rusty Nail" asks then who is the girl in the room with his brother. He knows they're brothers. Lewis runs to Vennas room and they pack fast and get in the car. Venna is panicking asking what's going on. As she and Lewis are yelling, Fuller is driving. The road signs he passes spell out the phrase "Look in the trunk". Fuller stops the car and they open the trunk. It's the CB radio. They plug it back in. "Rusty Nail" makes them drive to a diner. He has kidnapped Vennas roommate and they can hear her screaming on the radio. He makes them go to a restaurant. He makes Fuller and Lewis walk in naked and order 6 cheeseburgers while Venna stays in the car. Both walk in naked and sit down and order six cheeseburgers while the manager is trying to make them leave. They're trying to get the manager to understand. Venna starts to honk the horn. They run outside. She tells them "Rusty Nail" told her where to go. They drive to a corn field and get out and walk 100 paces like he told them. They see a truck speeding toward them. They run into the corn field. "Rusty Nail" hunts them down. They hide. He stops and kidnaps Venna. They see "Rusty Nail" has set their car on fire and they hear Venna screaming through the CB radio. They run back to the car and Lewis tells "Rusty Nail" they'll do anything he wants just to please give the girls back. Fuller notices the car is about to explode. "Rusty Nail" tells them to meet him at a hotel at a truck stop at midnight in room 17 and not to be a minute late and to bring pink champagne. Lewis notices there's a bottle of pink champagne on the seat. He grabs it right as Fuller pulls him away so they don't die when the car explodes. They run to a bar and steal a truck. They go to the stop but there's four hotels. They run to three and they're all wrong. While they're running around, "Rusty Nail" is taping Venna to a chair and setting up a shot gun trap to kill her when they open the door. He calls the cops to report some dead bodies. They run to the last hotel to room 17. They knock and start to open the door. It opens fully. Venna is in a different room. The guys slowly move into the room looking for her. The phone rings. It's "Rusty Nail". He tells them it's not fun being on the receiving end. Lewis asks where Venna is. Lewis apologizes again. Lewis realizes "Rusty Nail" is next door with Venna. They can hear him through the walls as he talks to them. Lewis asks him what he wants. He says he just wants to enjoy this. Lewis tells Fuller to go outside the back to see if he can see anything and he will keep "Rusty Nail" on the phone. Fuller goes out the back to look in the other room. "Rusty Nail" tells Lewis to come on over because his "Candy Cane" is waiting. Lewis tells him he's learned his lesson. He tells him you're gonna give us back the girls and we won't tell anybody including the cops. Fuller is looking through the window of the other room and "Rusty Nail" breaks the window and pulls Fuller through. He tells Fuller to watch because it's gonna be hilarious. He's covering Fullers mouth with his large hand. You can see his hands are filthy and he's wearing a watch. Lewis comes out front to open the door to the room next door to room 17. Rusty Nail has his hand covering Fullers mouth. Fuller gets loose and yells at Lewis not to open the door because of the trap. Fuller falls back out the back window and falls on a pipe. It goes through his leg. He tries to get up but the trucker comes through the window and pushes him back down. Lewis runs out back and can hear and see "Rusty Nail" leaving. He finds Fuller hanging on the fence with the pipe wrapped around his leg. Lewis tries to get Fuller free as "Rusty Nail" turns around to speed up and run over them. The cops show up and start going into rooms. Fuller gets free. Lewis runs inside to rescue Venna before the cops accidentally kill her. "Rusty Nail" begins to accelerate. The cops have surrounded Lewis telling him not to move. He runs out to grab Fuller. The cops run out. They yell at the cops to shoot the truck. The cops shoot at the truck and it crashes through the hotel. No one is harmed. The cops open the truck and a man is dead in the seat wearing the same watch as "Rusty Nail". They find Charlotte tied up alive in the back of the truck.
Charlotte and Venna are hugging at the ambulance. Lewis asks the cop if they figured out who that guy was. The cop says it's some guy named Jones who works for an ice company. Lewis and Fuller look shocked. They hear "Rusty Nails" voice come on the CB radio. They know he's still alive.