movieId: 2
title: Jumanji
year: 1995
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0113497/
ratingValue: 
directors: Joe Johnston
actors: Robin Williams, Jonathan Hyde, Kirsten Dunst, Bradley Pierce, Bonnie Hunt, Bebe Neuwirth, David Alan Grier, Patricia Clarkson, Adam Hann-Byrd, Laura Bell Bundy

synopsis:
In 1869, 2 young boys Benjamin and Caleb bury the Jumanji board game in the jungle near the town of Brantford. The board game starts attracting attention to itself, by emitting sounds of drums beating. The boys fear that one day the board game might be dug up and someone could start playing and are horrified by the prospect. In Brantford 1969. A young Alan Parrish (Robin Williams) is son of Sam (Jonathan Hyde), owner of Parrish shoes. Carl (David Alan Grier) is a worker at Sam's shoe factory and has been working on a new design of shoes for over a year now. The shoes are far ahead of their times and Carl reckons that if he can get a sports personality to endorse it, everybody in America will want a pair. Alan inadvertently damages the shoe after misplacing it on a conveyor belt just as Sam gives Alan advice about facing what he's afraid of. The machine is also damaged in the accident. Sam demands to know who is responsible for the incident, Carl takes responsibility and is dismissed. One day, Alan escapes a group of bullies led by Billy Jessup. One of them demands that Alan stay away from his girlfriend. Alan claims that he and the bully's girlfriend are 'just friends,' but this just leads to them beating up Alan. After Billy and the bullies accost Alan and steal his bicycle, Alan hears a beating drum (near a construction site) that draws him to a box with a wooden board game "Jumanji", which was buried 100 years earlier, and brings it home.
Alan takes the game home and opens it up. The 2 pieces he picks automatically place themselves on the board, waiting for the dice to be rolled. Alan is then interrupted by his parents. That evening, Alan's parents are going out to an event. Alan's mother has told his father that there are multiple bullies and Alan's father tells Alan that he is proud of him for standing up to them as he did.
Sam & Alan are having issues as Sam is sending Alan to boy's school. Alan grows indignant at being forced into doing something he doesn't want to do and he and his father part ways for the night in anger. Alan finds Sarah Whittle (Bonnie Hunt) (Bully's girlfriend) at his doorstep. Sarah had brought his bike back, which the bully had taken. She inadvertently rolls the dice on the board game & the pieces move on their own. Noises come from fireplace which indicate the presence of bats. With each dice roll, the game pieces move by themselves and a cryptic message describing the roll's outcome appears in the crystal ball at the center of the board.
Alan rolls & gets "In the jungle you must wait, until the dice read five or eight" Sarah watches Alan being sucked into the game as bats fly out of the fireplace. She runs in complete panic and is traumatized by this incident. 26 years later, Nora Shepherd (Bebe Neuwirth) moves into the Parrish mansion, with her niece and nephew, Judy (Kirsten Dunst) and Peter (Bradley Pierce). Nora plans to convert the mansion into a bed and breakfast.
Judy and Peter's parents were killed in a car accident the previous winter on a ski trip in Canada. Judy has developed a penchant for concocting ridiculous lies while Peter has coped by becoming quiet and withdrawn. Judy and Peter find bats in the attic and call the exterminator (James Handy) the next day. The exterminator says that a girl in the 60's claimed to have seen the same kind of bat as Judy saw. Before he leaves, the exterminator tells the kids a story that he believes the owner of the house murdered his son Alan, dismembered his body and hid the remains in the walls of the mansion. Judy & Peter find the game & start playing. 2 remaining pieces in the board game automatically place themselves on the starting time. Their rolls summon giant mosquitoes and a troop of monkeys. The game says that everything will return to normal once the game is over and you call out its name "Jumanji", so they continue playing. Peter rolls a 5 & that brings Alan back, now 40. Alan helps Judy & Peter deal with the lion, mosquitoes & monkeys unleashed by Jumanji. Judy informs him that it is 1995 and that everybody thought that Alan was dead.
They hijack Policeman's Carl's car to go to Sam's factory & find that Sam & his mother Carol (Patricia Clarkson) are dead & the factory shut down. A guard tells Alan that Sam loved his boy very much. Once he went missing, Sam put all his time and money into finding him and even stopped coming to work. Eventually, the factory's closure sent Brantford into economic decline.
After visiting his parents' graves, Alan and the kids return to the mansion, where the kids attempt to get Alan to help them finish the game. Judy convinces Alan to finish the game and says that once the game is over, everything will go back to the way it was. Alan says that the dangerous animals are just the beginning, and the game will expose them to far greater dangers. Alan knows that the kids will not last 5 minutes without him. They find that they can't finish the game without Sarah as Judy and Peter are playing the same game that Alan started in 1969, who rolled the first dice and now has the next turn. They go to her house. Sarah faints looking at Alan. Sarah agrees to finish the game after Alan says that he waited in the jungle for 26 years for someone to roll a five or an eight. The game unleashes cannibal vines which get hold of Peter. Alan has to take a sword and cut the vines to save him. Alan rolls next and unleashes hunter Van Pelt (Jonathan Hyde), who has been chasing Alan in the jungle world of Jumanji. Alan has to run away to escape Van Pelt who will not stop shooting at Alan.
Jumanji has created Van Pelt by patterning him after Alan's father, Sam Parrish. He seems only interesting in hunting Alan to death and screams at him for being "a sniveling, yellow coward" for not facing Van Pelt and his gun. Once again, an exaggerated nightmare conjuring of Sam Parrish. Alan circles around the block and enters Sarah's house again. Judy rolls next and unleashes a herd of Rhinos, Elephants and Zebras that run through Sarah's house. The roll also summons several pelicans, one of which steals the game. Van Pelt has acquired a high-power rifle from a gun store & hunts for Alan.
Carl arrests Alan as he suspects that Alan has something to do with all the weird things going on in town. Alan allows himself to be arrested as he can sense that Van Pelt has his gun locked on him.
Alan convinces Carl to trust him and tells him that he knows that Carl used to work for Sam at Parrish shoes. Alan tells Carl that he is the lost Alan, and that he was responsible for destroying Carl's prototype. Alan is released after revealing his identity to Carl and learning about the incident at the shoe factory. Peter retrieves the game from the Pelicans. Peter tries to cheat by dropping a particular number & begins turning into a monkey. Alan convinces Carl to help him.
Meanwhile, the three have been found again by Van Pelt. The chase leads the group into the heart of the town where the animal stampede almost kills Peter. Van Pelt finds Peter trapped in a crushed car and wrestles the game away from him, then heads for a discount store. Peter, Sarah and Judy follow Van Pelt to a nearby discount store and battle him to reclaim the game. Van Pelt intends to trap Sarah and use her as bait along with the game to lure Alan to him.
Carl (Who came to know of Van Pelt's location over the police radio) and Alan crash Carl's car into Van Pelt to get the game back. They travel back to Alan's home to finish the game. The group returns to the house, only to find the carnivorous plants have taken over the interior. The next turn causes a monsoon to flood the main floor of the house and the group to be chased by a large crocodile. Everyone heads for the attic, where Sarah takes her turn, and the floor turns to quicksand, almost swallowing Alan. Judy rolls the dice, freezing the floor, saving Alan from being swallowed up by the floor. Peter rolls next and some large spiders suddenly appear. Judy attempts to fight them off, but accidentally finds one of the plants, which shoots her with a poisonous barb. Sarah takes her turn, resulting in an earthquake that splits the Parrish house in two. Alan is freed and falls through the floor, along with the game. Alan manages to recover the game and is about to take his turn. Van Pelt appears & is about to shoot Alan, when Alan rolls the dice, whispers Jumanji & finishes the game. All the creatures unleashed start getting sucked back into the game. Alan and Sarah return to 1969 in time for Alan to reconcile with Sam, who assures him that he does not have to attend boarding school. Alan also admits his responsibility for damaging the shoe, and Carl is rehired with his shoes presumably approved. Remembering the game's events, Alan and Sarah throw Jumanji into a river and share a kiss. Sarah then tells Alan that it feels like the memories of their adventure are waning and decides to kiss him for the bravery he showed. The epilogue of the film catches up to the modern-day 1995. Alan and Sarah have married and are expecting their first child. A Christmas party is being held at the Parrish mansion, though Alan's parents are away on a vacation. Carl is also present at the party. Alan and Sarah have also invited Judy and Peter's parents and themselves as well (though the kids have no idea of their previous adventures). Alan and Sarah are eager to provide the two with a job at the Parrish Shoes company, but both of the parents feel they should wait until after they take a planned skiing trip.
Alan and Sarah unanimously shout a negative to this knowing that this trip is what will most likely cause Judy and Peter to lose their parents. Meanwhile on a beach, Jumanji is seen lying partially buried in the sand. Two French-speaking girls hear the drumbeats from the game as they walk towards it.