movieId: 4240
title: Just Visiting
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0189192/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jean-Marie Poiré
actors: Jean Reno, Christina Applegate, Christian Clavier, Matt Ross, Tara Reid, Bridgette Wilson-Sampras, John Aylward, George Plimpton, Malcolm McDowell, Martin Aistrope

synopsis:
In 12th-century England, Count Thibault Malefete (Jean Reno) of France is about to marry Princess Rosalind (Christina Applegate, the daughter of the reigning English King.
Thibault is a courageous Knight, who is always ready to rescue a damsel in distress. At the wedding banquet, an enemy known as the Earl of Warwick accidentally gives Thibault a potion which makes him hallucinate (and which was actually intended for Rosalind by a witch hired by the Earl), and under its influence, he kills his own bride believing she is a ferocious monster. Earl of Warwick desired Rosalind himself and the plan was to have Rosalind drink the potion and kill Thibault. Earl of Warwick desired the rich dowry, the land and the riches that came with Rosalind. While under sentence of death, he asks his servant, André Le Paté (Christian Clavier) to find a wizard to help him. The wizard (Malcolm McDowell) gives him a potion that will send him back to the moment before he killed Princess Rosalind. The Wizard says that time is like a mountain, riddled with tunnels and offers to open one of these tunnels for Thibault to travel back and correct his mistake.
The wizard botches the spell, and instead, Thibault and Andre are sent into the 21st century. They wake up in the same castle, which is now a museum in Chicago. They are arrested by the police after causing much panic, mischief, and chaos. Predictably, Thibault and Andre cannot relate to any of the modern amenities and think of a car as a red dragon and proceed to destroy it (particularly the radio).
They are rescued by Julia Malefete, a museum employee who closely resembles Princess Rosalind. Julia is intrigued as Thibault's stamping ring exactly resembles the coat of arms of her family. Thibault also recites "Courage Is our Creed", which is Julia's family motto.
She thinks that Thibault is her distant French cousin who drowned while yachting a couple of years ago. However, Thibault soon finds out that Julia is descended from his family and realizes he must return to the 12th century to correct the past. Before they return to his time, Thibault decides to protect Julia from her money-hungry fiance, Hunter (Matt Ross). Amber (Bridgette Wilson-Sampras) is Hunter's assistant and Hunter is having an affair with her. Hunter is helping sell Julia all of her family estate.
Hunter is alarmed that Julia has found "Dead" Cousin Thibault as this could put a spanner in his plans to sell the estate. He brings Thibault and Andre home, along with Julia.
Julia introduces them to the modern American style of life where norms from medieval times no longer apply. They are amazed by electricity, the toilet, empty a bottle of Chanel for their bath, Andre slips on the ice coming out of the refrigerator and so on. They cannot understand the concept of a telephone. Julia believes that Thibault's yacht went down in a storm, but Thibault says that he needs Julia's help to find a Wizard. Thibault explains that he needs to go back to the past, but Julia simply thinks that Cousin Thibault has lost his memory.
They go for dinner at a fancy restaurant, but Thibault and Andre have terrible table manners. Andre sits on the floor and eats whatever Thibault throws at him. After much persuasion from Julia, Thibault allows Andre to sit at the table like everyone else. Hunter explains his plans of selling the castle and the art inside it separately to maximize the value of the estate. Hunter wants to sell the land too, but Thibault says that it should be Julia's decision to figure out the future of her ancestral property.
Meanwhile, Andre falls for a gardener, Angelique (Tara Reid) who presents him with the world of equal rights for all people. The wizard realizes his mistake and decides to time travel into the future to help Thibault. After he finds him, he successfully prepares a potion to return to the past. André confronts Thibault, telling him he does not want to return to the 12th century, Julia convinces Thibault that he should set him free.
Hunter tries to prevent Thibault from interfering with his plans, but Julia finds out his real intentions and breaks up with him. Before he leaves, Thibault tells Julia that she will meet a new and better man to marry. Then, he and the wizard drink the potion in the museum and return to the past just before the murder of Princess Rosalind.
However, this time, Thibault offers the tainted wine to the Earl as a peace offering, the latter of whom, not wanting to drink it, jumps out a window to his death. Thibault and Rosalind are then happily reunited. Back in the present, Hunter finds and drinks the remainder of the potion which sends him to the 12th century where he is captured. Julia decides to reclaim her ancestral castle, much to the firm's delight, and meets a man named Francois Le Combier (Alexis Loret), who knows a great deal about her family's history.
André and Angelique are seen driving in a hot rod towards Las Vegas, and André asks her who would protect him from the Devil. Angelique simply replies "Hey, at least you got me, babe", to which André happily agrees.