movieId: 5479
title: K-19: The Widowmaker
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0267626/
ratingValue: 
directors: Kathryn Bigelow
actors: Sam Spruell, Peter Stebbings, Christian Camargo, Roman Podhora, Sam Redford, Steve Nicolson, Liam Neeson, Ravil Isyanov, Tim Woodward, Lex Shrapnel

synopsis:
In 1961, the Soviet Union launches its first ballistic missile nuclear submarine, the K-19, commanded by Captain 2nd Rank Alexei Vostrikov (Harrison Ford), with executive officer Mikhail Polenin (Liam Neeson) (Captain 3rd rank), the crew's original captain. Soviets are responding to US deployment of nuclear subs near their shores and need MAD..
Vostrikov is alleged to have been appointed through his wife's political connections, as well as Polenin's tendency to put crew morale and safety before Soviet pride (Polenin failed in a missile launch drill and said that the boat was not ready yet to be put to sea and the deployment was being rushed).
The K-19's first mission is to surface in the Arctic, test-fire an unarmed intercontinental ballistic missile, and patrol the Atlantic within striking range of New York City and Washington, D.C.. Vastrikov also argues in front of Marshal Zolentsov (Joss Ackland), Defense Minister, Admiral Bratyeev (John Shrapnel) and Vice-Admiral Konstantin Partonov (Tim Woodward), that without sea trials an assignment of this complexity is very risky.. but the seniors wants the Americans to know that Soviets can attack as well. Discovering the reactor officer drunk and asleep on duty, Vostrikov fires him, receiving a replacement, Vadim Radtchenko (Peter Sarsgaard), fresh from the academy. Polenin protests saying that the old reactor officer is the best in the navy. Vastrikov also orders the launch of the boat in 2 weeks, while Polenin again insists that critical equipment is not on board and the boat is not ready yet.
Bad luck surrounds the launch; the medical officer is killed by a truck (he was running after the supplies truck as it delivered the wrong drugs to the submarine) and replaced by command's foremost medical officer, who has never been out to sea, and the inaugural bottle of champagne fails to break on the bow. 9 men died during construction of the boat. The men christen it "The widow-maker".. Crew includes Captain 3rd Rank Gennadi Savran (Donald Sumpter), Medical Officer. Captain 3rd Rank Yuri Demichev (Steve Nicolson), Torpedo Officer. Captain 3rd Rank Igor Suslov (Ravil Isyanov), Political Officer. Petty Officer Pavel Loktev (Christian Camargo), Senior Reactor Technician. Captain-Lieutenant Konstantin Poliansky (George Anton), Missile Officer. Seaman Anatoly Subachev (James Francis Ginty), Reactor Technician. Captain-Lieutenant Mikhail Kornilov (Lex Shrapnel), Communications Officer. Captain 3rd Rank Viktor Gorelov (Ingvar Eggert Sigurðsson), Chief Engineer. Senior Seaman Dmitri Nevsky (Sam Spruell). Petty Officer 2nd Class Vasily Mishin (Sam Redford). Chief Petty Officer Leonid Pashinski (Shaun Benson). Captain-Lieutenant Anton Malahov (Kristen Holden-Ried). Petty Officer 1st Class Maxim Portenko (Tygh Runyan), Sonar Operator. Vostrikov orders many drills relentlessly to test the crew and the boat..
Vostrikov orders K-19 to submerge past its maximum operational depth (during an emergency dive drill, he orders planks to be jammed at 20 degrees down) (he takes the boat to 300 m, against safe limit of 250 m), then surface at full-speed to break through the Arctic pack-ice. Protesting the dangerous maneuver, Polenin storms off the bridge. The test missile launches successfully.
Polenin tells Vostrikov that he was merely lucky. Vostrikov retorts that the crew needs to be tested to find the limits and to know what to expect in emergencies. En route to the patrol zone, a reactor coolant pipe bursts. Control rods are inserted to stop the reactor, but reactor temperature rises and the crew learns back-up coolant systems were not installed. Radtchenko inform Vastrikov that the temperature will keep rising to 1000 degrees and it will start a core meltdown that could lead to a thermonuclear reaction. The boat has 3-4 hrs. A decision is made to use the fresh water supply of 30 tonnes on board the submarine as a coolant for the reactor. But the drainage system has to be installed. Captain decides the exposure limit of 10 mins. Since there is no protective equipment on board, teams are sent in with raincoats and gas masks.
K-19 surfaces to contact fleet command but the long-range transmitter antenna cable is damaged, possibly by the Arctic maneuver. Engineers rig a makeshift coolant system, working in shifts to limit radiation exposure. The first team emerges vomiting and blistered; the second and third teams cool the reactor, but all suffer radiation poisoning. With radiation levels rising, the submarine surfaces and most of the crew are ordered topside. Vadim Radtchenko (Peter Sarsgaard) (Ractor officer) balks after seeing the first team's injuries, and the crew chief takes his place on the third team.
The coolant system is installed and the core temperature starts dropping gradually. Now, Vostrikov orders a return to the Russian base, under electric power, with most crew staying topside and the main ventilation system closed to isolate the radiation. Polenin again objects since the NATO base is only 160 Kms, but Vostrikov will never hand over the boat to the AMericans. A Sikorsky H-34 Choctaw helicopter from a nearby United States Navy destroyer offers assistance, which Vostrikov rejects. The Soviet government grows concerned when the K-19 ceases contact but is spotted near the destroyer. Hoping diesel submarines will be sent to tow the K-19, Vostrikov orders a return to port, but the pace could kill the entire crew. Radiation rises in every compartment and some pet mice die in the crew compartments.
The repaired pipework leaks and reactor temperature rises again, and torpedo fuel ignites a fire. Initially ordering the fire suppression system activated - which would suffocate anyone in the area - Vostrikov is talked down by Polenin, who personally assists the fire crew. Two officers mutiny against Vostrikov, and Radtchenko enters the reactor alone to attempt repairs. Polenin deceives the mutineers into handing over their weapons, arrests them, and frees Vostrikov. Unaware of Radtchenko, Vostrikov, at Polenin's behest, announces his plan to dive and attempt another repair, fearing an overheating reactor could set off their warheads and incite nuclear war. The crew responds positively, and K-19 dives. Radtchenko's repairs are successful, but blind and weakened by heavy radiation, he is dragged out by Vostrikov. A meltdown is prevented, but irradiated steam leaks throughout the submarine.
A Soviet diesel submarine reaches K-19, with orders to confine the crew on-board until a freighter can pick them up, but as it is too dangerous to stay, Vostrikov orders an evacuation, knowing he may lose his command and be sent to a gulag. Returning to the Soviet Union, Vostrikov is tried for endangering the mission and disobeying a direct order, but Polenin comes to his defense. An epilogue reveals Vostrikov was acquitted, but the K-19 crew was sworn to secrecy and Vostrikov never given submarine command again. All seven men who went into the reactor chamber died of radiation poisoning, and twenty others later died from radiation sickness. Only after the dissolution of the Soviet Union decades later could the crew discuss what happened.
In 1989, an aged Vostrikov meets Polenin and other survivors at a cemetery on the anniversary of their rescue. Vostrikov informs the men that he nominated the 28 deceased crewmen for the Hero of the Soviet Union award, but was told the honor was reserved for combat veterans. Remarking "what good are honors from such people," Vostrikov toasts the survivors and those who sacrificed their lives.