movieId: 4614
title: Kickboxer
year: 1989
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0097659/
ratingValue: 
directors: Mark DiSalle, David Worth
actors: Jean-Claude Van Damme, Dennis Alexio, Dennis Chan, Michel Qissi, Haskell V. Anderson III, Rochelle Ashana, Ka-Ting Lee, Richard Foo, Ricky Liu, Ho-Ying Sin

synopsis:
ERIC Sloane (Dennis Alexio) is fighting in a kickboxing match. Eric is the current heavyweight champion. He knocks out his opponent in the 4th round. Eric's trainer is his brother KURT Sloane (Jean-Claude Van Damme). Eric is talking to reporters after the match. He says since he has beaten all the challengers in America, he will go on to compete internationally against the world's best. One reporter specifically asks about Thailand saying they invented kickboxing and are supposedly the best at it. After this, Eric says he will go to Thailand then. Eric and Kurt arrive in Thailand. While walking to the park to train, Eric tells Kurt that Kurt had it easy growing up with their mother in Europe while Eric was raised by their father in America. Their father was tough on Eric and expected him to be the best at everything. The two train, and Eric tells Kurt it's all about power as he demonstrates with strong kicks. The day of Eric's big match against Thailand's champion Tong Po is here. In the locker room, Eric complains about there being no ice and sends Kurt to go get some. Before going, Kurt tries to warn Eric that he hasn't fought the style used by the fighters in Thailand, Muay Thai, but Eric blows him off saying a strike is the same everywhere. While returning with the ice, Kurt hears a loud banging. He follows the noise and looks through an open door where he sees TONG PO (Michel Qissi) repeatedly kicking a solid pillar causing plaster to fall. Tong Po turns around and makes a threatening gesture with his hands as if he is breaking something. Kurt returns to the locker room and tries to warn Eric against fighting Tong Po recounting what he witnessed, but Eric is unfazed. Kurt tries again telling Eric he has a bad feeling about the fight, but Eric doesn't care. The match begins and Tong Po goes after Eric immediately knocking him down after only a few hits. Eric tries to attack back, but Tong Po doesn't even seem to feel his hits. Tong Po then severely beats Eric for the rest of the round until the bell rings. Eric is dazed in his corner between rounds. He mentions to Kurt that Tong Po hit him with an elbow, and Kurt says that is how they fight over here. Kurt again tries to tell Eric to quit the match, but Eric refuses. The second round begins and Tong Po starts in on Eric again knocking him down after a few hits. Kurt throws in the towel to signal their forfeit of the match, but Tong Po kicks the towel back at him. Then Tong Po kneels next to Eric, who is on all fours, and delivers a vicious elbow to Eric's lower back. The match ends and Kurt tries to go after Tong Po but is held back. Tong Po pushes the men holding him back and kicks Kurt literally out of the ring. Kurt lands on an American man who yells at him. Tong Po takes Eric's heavy weight champion belt and rips it in half. Eric is put on a stretcher by two men. The two men look up at FREDDY Li (Ka-Ting Lee), who runs the place, and Freddy makes a gesture to the men. The two men then carry Eric outside of the arena where is he left on the side of the road. Kurt yells at the men who left Eric there saying he needs to be taken to the hospital, but they ignore him and go back inside locking the gate behind them. Kurt tries to stop a taxi to take them to a hospital, but the driver doesn't understand what he is saying. The American from inside, Winston TAYLOR (Haskell V. Anderson III) pulls up in a van and helps Kurt load Eric into the back. Taylor tells Kurt he was in the army special forces but is kind of retired now. At the hospital, the doctor tells Kurt that Eric is paralyzed because his spinal cord is damaged. Kurt loses it when the doctor says Eric will never walk again and starts grabbing the doctor until Taylor stops him. The doctor says Eric was lucky to survive and will be in the hospital for at least three months. Kurt is furious and wants revenge against Tong Po, but Taylor says he won't help him because he doesn't want Kurt to get hurt too. Kurt wanders around Thailand. He tries to go to a kickboxing gym to learn Muay Thai to be able to fight Tong Po, but the whole gym just laughs at him when he tells them that. Taylor is outside the gym when Kurt leaves. Taylor says if Kurt is serious, Taylor knows someone who might be able to train him. Taylor says he will take Kurt tomorrow, but they must go out drinking tonight. Kurt agrees, and the two go to an exotic dance club where women in thongs and pasties on their breasts are dancing on stage. At the club, Taylor tells Kurt about Tong Po's boss, Freddy and how he is a bad guy. Kurt asks Taylor why Taylor is helping him. Taylor says he had a fellow soldier with him in Vietnam who was like a big brother to Taylor. When that soldier was in trouble, Taylor could have helped save him, but Taylor froze, and the soldier died. The next day, Taylor drives Kurt to the house of the trainer. Taylor drops Kurt off and says he will be back in a few hours. Kurt starts walking toward the house when he gets caught in a trap that hangs him upside down. XIAN (Dennis Chan) appears in front of him asking who he is. Kurt tells him to let him down, but Xian says he cannot because he does not know who Kurt is. Kurt tells him who he is and that he wants Xian to train him in Muay Thai. Xian mentions hearing about an American champion with a huge ego who lost a big fight last week. Kurt tells Xian that was his brother who is now paralyzed. After hearing this, Xian walks off and releases the trap dropping Kurt down to the ground. Xian says that revenge can be dangerous. Kurt tells Xian that Taylor said Xian might train him. Xian asks Kurt if he is a good fighter and whether he has good defense. Kurt says yes, but then Xian jumps up doing a martial arts move almost hitting Kurt multiple times before Kurt can even blink. Kurt pleads with Xian to train him. Xian tells Kurt to take a path to the village and pick up his groceries from Mylee's store, so they can eat. Kurt reluctantly goes. Kurt arrives at the village. He plays with some of the younger children in the village until a couple tough looking guys show up. The kids run off and Kurt goes into Mylee's store where he finds out the person who operates the store is named MYLEE (Rochelle Ashana). Kurt explains he was sent by Xian and finds out Xian is Mylee's uncle. Kurt explains how he is hoping Xian will teach him and how he wants to fight Tong Po. Mylee warns that Tong Po is very dangerous as is the person Tong Po works for, Freddy. Mylee explains how Freddy extorts all the local businesses to pay or face trouble, and they can't go to the police because Freddy bribes the police. Just then, the two tough guys enter Mylee's store and start taking money from the shop. Even though Mylee says it's okay as it is what happens there, Kurt says it's not okay and starts fighting the two men and beats them up easily. Then Mylee yells at Kurt saying she will get in trouble for what he did and that he messed up her store. Kurt doesn't understand how he was supposed to just let it happen. Kurt picks up the groceries and heads back to Xian's place where Taylor is waiting. Taylor asks if Kurt is staying, and Xian says he will stay as they have much to discuss. Taylor leaves Kurt his bag and tells him he will be back in a couple days to take Kurt to visit Eric. The next morning, Xian wakes Kurt up by pouring water on him. Xian makes Kurt change clothes and the two start training. Xian teaches Kurt to breathe in and out a certain way when he is performing certain actions like striking or bracing for a hit. Xian tells Kurt to prepare to protect and drops a coconut on his stomach, but Kurt does not do it properly yet and is hurt by it. When Kurt is running, Xian makes him stop and ties a piece of meat to his leg saying it will make him run faster. Kurt doesn't understand how, but once Kurt starts running again, Xian's dog Kiki starts chasing Kurt making him have to sprint to get away. Xian takes Kurt to the Stone City, which he says is a place at which ancient warriors used to train. Mylee shows up to Xian's place and tells him about what Kurt did. Xian is happy about it saying it is something he wanted to do to help her for a long time but was afraid it would cause problems. The three have dinner, and Kurt and Mylee seem to start liking each other. After dinner, Kurt walks with Mylee and the two talk about their pasts. The two kiss, and Mylee leaves. Xian starts to train Kurt focusing on a variety of areas. He trains with Kurt to be fast enough to avoid getting hit. He trains Kurt to deliver combination strikes and uses a contraption to improve Kurt's flexibility pulling his legs into a split. Xian makes Kurt do exercises underwater to improve his breathing. Kurt is training while kicking a palm tree which hurts Kurt's leg. Xian walks up to Kurt and declares the palm tree the winner which makes Mylee laugh. Tong Po fights another match where he defeats his opponent easily as Freddy looks on approvingly. Back at the Stone City, Xian has Kurt kicking a target high above his head until Kurt knocks the target off the post it was held on. Xian then has Kurt practice roundhouse kicks above Xian's head. Then Kurt is back kicking the palm tree hurting his leg again. Kurt tries to stop after his leg starts to really hurt. Xian tells him to kick the tree. Kurt tries one more but stops again in pain and says that's enough. Xian tells Kurt to take his bag and leave his house. This infuriates Kurt who starts kicking the palm tree significantly harder than before eventually causing the palm tree to break and fall over. Kurt immediately drops to the ground after in extreme pain holding his leg. Xian walks away pleased while Mylee treats Kurt's leg. Kurt continues to improve completing all the same exercises but doing them better each time. Xian drops another coconut on Kurt's stomach, but Kurt isn't hurt by it this time. Kurt visits Eric at the hospital. Eric seems to be feeling better as he pinches the butt of a nurse. Xian takes Kurt to a local bar. Xian makes Kurt do many shots getting him drunk. Xian then asks Kurt if he is a good dancer. Kurt says he is, and Xian tells him he wants to see him dance. Xian uses the jukebox to play music and then pulls up a girl to dance with Kurt. Soon another girl joins in. Xian is walking around the bar whispering things to the various men in the bar causing the men to become angry. Eventually the men start attacking Kurt, but Kurt defeats each of them easily even taking on multiple men at once. Freddy and his GUARD are at the bar. Guard goes to take out a throwing knife, but Freddy stops him. Afterwards Kurt leaves the bar to find Xian outside talking to Freddy. Xian talks Freddy into setting up a fight for Kurt pointing out how Kurt easily defeated Freddy's young fighters who were apparently the men in the bar. Freddy is reluctant after how badly Eric was defeated by Tong Po, but Xian tells Freddy this brother is different so Freddy agrees. Kurt asks Xian what happened and why the men in the bar were so angry at him. Xian tells Kurt that he went around telling them men Kurt insulted them and their mothers. Xian then hires a pedicab, but he makes Kurt drive the bike while the driver and Xian sit in the back. Kurt has his first official match against one of Freddy's fighters. Kurt wins the fight easily knocking out the other fighter in the first round. After Kurt is declared the winner, Xian starts a chant saying Nack Suk Cao which the entire crowd soon joins in chanting it as well. Kurt asks Taylor what it means, and Taylor tells him it mean White Warrior. Kurt then looks up at Freddy and starts screaming that he wants to fight Tong Po. Freddy makes a gesture with his fist that he will agree to the fight. At the hospital, Eric is reading the newspaper about Kurt fighting and gets a worried look on his face. Kurt is training with Xian when Eric arrives, brought to Xian's house by Taylor. Kurt is excited to see him, and Eric congratulates Kurt on his victory. Mylee and Taylor head off to make breakfast for the group. The next day, Eric asks Xian if Kurt is around, and Xian tells him Kurt is off training by himself and won't be back until late. Kurt is training in the Stone City when he starts hearing some strange sounds which sound like battle sounds. Kurt looks around and comes upon Mylee who is picking flowers. He surprises her from behind, and the two start kissing passionately. Back at Xian's house, Eric talks to Kurt. He tells Kurt he doesn't want Kurt to fight Tong Po. Eric admits he should have listened to Kurt, and Eric is afraid Kurt will get hurt just like him if he fights. Kurt tells Eric he is ready and to trust him when Mylee comes and calls Kurt to come quickly. Freddy has sent a messenger to deliver a scroll with the fight details. The scroll states the fight will be in the ancient way meaning the fighters' hands will be wrapped in hemp and resin then dipped in broken glass. Hearing this infuriates Eric who starts yelling at Kurt, but Kurt walks away with Xian. They go to train again at the Stone City, but this time, Xian uses poles who's ends have been burned in the fire and are glowing red to try to strike Kurt with. At a huge mansion, Freddy goes to see a wealthy warlord, Tao LIU. Freddy tells the Liu that a fight has been arranged between Tong Po and an American challenger causing Liu to start laughing. However, Liu stops laughing immediately once Freddy tells him the American has been trained by Xian. Freddy tells Liu not to worry as Tong Po will still win, and Freddy asks to borrow one million dollars to bet on Tong Po. Liu agrees to loan Freddy the money but tells him he better not lose. At an empty warehouse, two men are seen forcibly kidnapping a resisting Mylee. The two men take her into a room where Tong Po is waiting. Tong Po rips Mylee's clothes off and rapes her although the assault is not shown. Freddy is then seen entering a gambling place where he places the bet on Tong Po. Mylee tells Xian about what happened, and Xian comforts her. Kurt is training at the Stone City by himself when he notices a hawk that lands on one of the statues. Back at Xian's place, several of Freddy's men, including Guard, show up to kidnap Eric. Kiki attacks one of the men, but Guard throws a knife at the dog subduing him. Guard then knocks out Eric, and the men carry Eric away leaving his wheelchair behind. Taylor arrives to find the scene joined shortly after by Xian, Mylee, and Kurt. Taylor says it must have been done by Freddy, and Xian tells Kurt it was done to ensure Kurt doesn't win. Kurt tells Taylor he needs his help to find them, but Taylor is afraid to cross Freddy knowing how much power and control he has over the region. Kiki is still alive, so Xian puts him in Taylor's van to drive into the city for help. Before Taylor can leave, Mylee begs him to help Kurt. After Taylor refuses, Mylee tells Taylor about Tong Po assaulting her, and that she didn't tell Kurt as to not mess with his head for the fight. Mylee tells Taylor he has to help find Eric for the same reason as Kurt's head need to be clear for him to have a chance to win the fight. In an old underground arena inside a tomb, two men are seen smashing bottles inside a metal box. They then close the container and shake it up to break up the glass more. Tong Po enters the arena to the crowd chanting his name. At the warehouse where Mylee was assaulted earlier, several of Freddy's men are guarding Eric. Back at the arena, Tong Po and Kurt are getting their hands wrapped for the fight. Kurt notices Xian has left the arena and asks Mylee where he went, but she does not know. Freddy says something to Guard who leaves and heads to the warehouse. Back in the arena, Tong Po wets his wrapped hands in a substance and then presses them into the box with the broken glass causing pieces of glass to stick to his hands. He then licks the glass on his hand cutting his tongue while looking at Kurt in an intimidating manner. Kurt does the same with his hands and starts to walk toward the ring when Freddy stops him. Freddy tells Kurt if he wants his brother back alive, Kurt must last until the end of the fight letting Tong Po punish him every round. Kurt says he understands. Outside the warehouse, Xian is spying on the men outside guarding the building. The match begins. Tong Po makes a point to gesture toward his left knee indicating that is what he is going to use to hurt Kurt that round. Tong Po dominates the round striking Kurt many times. Freddy looks over at Liu who is there watching and looks back approvingly. Back at the warehouse, Xian knocks out the men stationed outside the building and takes car keys from one of them. The second round begins, and Tong Po indicates his left elbow for this round. Kurt lands a couple hits, but Tong Po still dominates the fight. At the warehouse, a car is then seen driving into the warehouse knocking over some men who were playing cards inside. One of the men pulls out a gun and searches the inside of the car to find it was rigged with rope on the steering wheel and a brick holding down the gas pedal. After inspecting the car, he turns around to find Xian standing there who knocks him out with a kick. Several other men inside the warehouse cock their guns and point them at Xian. Back at the fight, the second round ends. Guard walks up next to Eric in the warehouse and pulls out a throwing knife matching the one found in Kiki letting Xian know he was the one who hurt his dog. Guard gives the order to kill Xian, but before his men can open fire, a couple of them are shot by a machine gun. A third one cowers into a room, but the machine gun, which also has a grenade launcher on it, shoots a grenade into the room causing it to explode. Eric then strikes the man next to him and Guard knocking them both down. The man then runs into another room which is then blown up by a grenade from the machine gun. The man wielding the machine gun then enters into view, and we see it is Taylor. Guard stands up to throw a knife at Taylor, but Xian grabs a rope causing a large hook hanging by a rope on a pulley to stab Guard lifting him by his crotch. Taylor thanks Xian saying they are even now, and Xian comments how Kiki has his revenge now too. The third round begins, and Tong Po indicates his right hand. During the round, Tong Po uses the glass on his hands to cut Kurt in various places. The round ends, and Tong Po compares Kurt bleeding to Mylee and tells Kurt about assaulting Mylee. Kurt screams no not wanting to believe it. Kurt sits down and tells Mylee to tell him the truth. Mylee cries, and Kurt knows Tong Po is telling the truth. The fourth round begins, and Tong Po indicates his left elbow and right knee as well as his head. Just then Eric whistles loudly to get Kurt's attention and starts chanting Nack Suk Cao causing the crowd to join in. Kurt turns around telling Mylee to cut the wrappings off his hands. Tong Po starts approaching Kurt, but as soon as Mylee finishes cutting the second wrapping, Kurt turns and immediately kicks Tong Po in the face. Kurt then starts dominating the fight landing various hits on Tong Po and dodging or blocking any Tong Po tries to give. Freddy goes to stand up, but Xian is right next to him and doesn't let him. When a man goes to hit the gong indicating the round is over, Taylor stops him and takes the mallet away from him. Kurt kicks Tong Po knocking him out of the arena. Tong Po gets up, grabs a torch, and gets back into the ring and starts swinging the torch at Kurt. Kurt knocks Tong Po out of the ring again, and this time, he leaves the ring and continues fighting right next to Freddy. Kurt delivers a kick to Tong Po knocking him out and kicks Freddy in the face before putting his foot down. They all celebrate the victory as the movie ends.