movieId: 1785
title: King of New York
year: 1990
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0099939/
ratingValue: 
directors: Abel Ferrara
actors: Christopher Walken, David Caruso, Laurence Fishburne, Victor Argo, Wesley Snipes, Janet Julian, Joey Chin, Giancarlo Esposito, Paul Calderon, Steve Buscemi

synopsis:
Frank White (Christopher Walken), a drug lord, is riding into New York in a limousine after being released from prison. Frank strives to control New York City's criminal underground. Frank wants consolidate power by eliminating his rivals in the Colombian drug cartel and Triad. Emilio El Zapa (Freddy Howard), a Colombian drug dealer, is shot dead and the killers leave a newspaper headline announcing Frank's release. Emilio was making a call from a phone booth in the middle of the night, when he was surrounded and shot down. Zapa's partner, King Tito (Ernest Abuba), is in a hotel room with Jimmy Jump (Laurence Fishburne) and Test Tube (Steve Buscemi), who are negotiating the purchase of cocaine. Jimmy and Test Tube shoot Tito and his bodyguards and steal the cocaine. Later, in a suite at the Plaza Hotel, Frank is greeted by Jimmy, Test Tube and other members of his gang, who welcome him home. Frank is now the undisputed King of New York and celebrates with his troops. Jimmy says that he has been waiting for Frank to return for years and could not be happier.
Frank harbors a resentment against Jimmy as Jimmy never came to see him in prison. Jimmy argues that he did not want to see the King in a cage and assuages Frank's ego. Frank leaves to meet two of his lawyers, Joey Dalesio (Paul Calderón) and Jennifer (Janet Julian), for dinner. Frank expresses his desire to be mayor and asks Dalesio to set up a meeting with Mafia boss Arty Clay (Frank Gio). He and Jennifer leave to take a ride on the subway. Frank fondles Jennifer's naked body on the subway indicating that they had been in a relationship before Frank went to prison.
Confronted by African American muggers, Frank first brandishes his gun then gives them a wad of money, telling them to ask for him at the Plaza if they want work. Dalesio goes to Little Italy to set up a meeting with Clay, but the Mafia don urinates on Dalesio's shoes and tells him it is a message for his boss. Clay says that he does not work with people who employ African Americans. Clay was also angry at being interrupted at his poker game with his friends at his club.
Frank, Jump and other members of the gang go to Clay's social club, where Frank tells Clay that he wants a percentage of all Clay's profits. Frank says that all the dons got rich while he was off the streets and now it is his turn. When Clay insults him, Frank shoots the Mafioso. As he leaves, Frank tells Clay's men that they can all find employment at the Plaza. Frank attends a show at the Opera and meet the current Mayor of New York. Frank asks that the hospital in the poor district be kept open, but the mayor says that there is no money in the budget for it. Frank offers to fund the hospital himself and is told to arrange $16 million by the end of the quarter. Frank is disgusted at the blatant conspiracy to inconvenience the poor and use that money to cater to the privileged districts. The next night, Frank is confronted by Detectives Bishop (Victor Argo), Gilley (David Caruso) and Flanigan (Wesley Snipes) of the NYPD narcotics squad. They drive him to an empty lot where they show him the body of El Zapa in the trunk. When Frank refuses to confess, Gilley and Flanigan beat him and leave him in the lot. Frank sends Dalesio to Chinatown to make contact with Triad leader Larry Wong (Joey Chin), who has $15 million worth of cocaine. Larry demands $3 million up front and another $500,000 after the drugs are sold. Frank counters that the two should team up, then split the profits evenly. Larry turns him down and demands that Frank decide immediately whether he wants to buy the drugs. Frank declines. Jimmy Jump and several of Frank's lieutenants are arrested by Gilley and Flanigan, who reveal that one of Tito's bodyguards is alive and willing to testify. When Frank learns of his men's arrest, he orders his lawyers to arrange their release. Jennifer gets the men released and Bishop is not able to do anything about it.
They head to Chinatown, where they kill Larry and his gang and take the cocaine, which was stored in oil drums in his warehouse (all 220 pounds of it).
Frank uses the proceeds of the drugs to fund the hospital in an African American neighborhood. The police watch the public ceremony where Frank is honored for his contributions to the community and are disgusted. Gilley, Flanigan and other officers (who have now decided to kill Frank as they can't arrest him) pose as drug dealers and bribe Dalesio into leading them to the nightclub where Frank and his men are partying. They burst in shooting, slaying several members of Frank's gang. Fleeing over the Queensboro Bridge, Frank and Jump trade shots with the police, killing all but Gilley and Flanigan. After evading their pursuers, the two men split up. Jump shoots Flanigan in the chest, puncturing his vest. Gilley kills Jump with a shot to the head. A few days later at Flanigan's funeral, Frank kills Gilley. After his men kill Dalesio, Frank goes to Bishop's apartment, telling him that he has placed a $250,000 bounty on every detective involved in the case. Holding Bishop at gunpoint, Frank explains that he killed Tito, Larry, Arty Clay and Zapa because he disapproved of their involvement in human trafficking and child prostitution. Frank forces Bishop to handcuff himself to a chair. As Frank heads to the subway, Bishop escapes his restraints and chases Frank into the subway. Both men draw guns on each other, but Frank uses an innocent bystander as a human shield. The two exchange gunfire and Bishop is killed. Frank exits the subway and makes his way to a taxi in Times Square. He clutches a gunshot wound to his torso and watches as police surround his taxi. Frank goes limp as the police close in on him.