movieId: 2368
title: King Kong Lives
year: 1986
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0091344/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Guillermin, Charles McCracken
actors: Peter Elliott, George Antoni, Brian Kerwin, Linda Hamilton, John Ashton, Peter Michael Goetz, Frank Maraden, Alan Sader, Lou Criscuolo, Marc Clement

synopsis:
The movie starts where King Kong ended. Ten years after King Kong fell from the Twin Towers, we see him at the Atlanta University, being kept alive by doctors. Amy Franklin (Linda Hamilton) is in charge of keeping King Kong alive. They build an artificial heart in order to transplant it inside Kong, because his own is finished. The problem is that they don't have enough plasma to do the operation. What they need is a miracle. In the jungles of Borneo, an adventurer named Hank Mitchell (Brian Kerwin) happens to meet another giant ape. This one is female, and she took a fancy to Mitchell. As he was being chased, the aboriginal of the area shoot sleeping darts at the ape, and Mitchell captures her. Somehow the Atlanta University got wind of the find and convince Mitchell to sell them the female. They can use her for the plasma and as a live specimen. Lady Kong is taken to the US and is kept in a nearby warehouse while they build her a facility. She somehow knows that King Kong is nearby. The doctors perform the operation to replace King Kong's heart and it is a success. Soon Kong wakes up and senses the female nearby. Mitchell convinces the University to move Lady Kong as quickly as possible because something is going to happen. They agree but it is too late. As they try to capture Lady Kong to transport her to the new facility, she doesn't go without being upset. That stirs up King Kong to the point that he escapes. He arrives at the warehouse and destroys the equipment used by the crew to subdue Lady Kong. He takes her in his arms, and they escape into the wilderness. Lt. Col. R.T. Nevitt (John Ashton) is given the task by the US Army to capture the apes. He prevents anyone from coming near the area, making it difficult for Dr. Franklin and Mitchell to get near them. They however succeed. Franklin checks King Kong's heart and it's fine. The next morning, Franklin and Mitchell notice that King Kong is gone, leaving Lady Kong alone. A few minutes later, helicopters with gas empty gas containers on Lady Kong, making her fall asleep. King Kong arrives, and the army prevents him from getting close by bombing the area in front of him. The Army captures Lady Kong and take her away. King Kong is trapped on a mountain peak and jumps down into a river to escape. He hits his head on a large rock and everyone thinks he's dead. Col. Nevitt takes Lady Kong to an abandoned missile silo and prevents anyone from seeing the ape. After three months, Franklin manages to get a court order from the Pentagon, and she manages to see the ape only once for a few minutes. She senses that something is wrong, because the ape does not want to eat, and she pines for her Kong. Mitchell comes back from Borneo with a deal for the university to buy a 10,000-acre piece of land for the Kongs. When he hears about how Lady Kong is treated, he gets upset and heads over to the silo to get answers. He is quickly turned around. Meanwhile Kong survived in a swamp by eating alligators. He suddenly hears the cries of Lady Kong miles away and decides to go after her. In his travels he encounters a small village and scares them. That information quickly reaches Col. Nevitt's ears, and he proceeds to find Kong. Four hunters from the village go after King Kong and brings dynamite. They prepared an ambush and Kong eventually triggers the trap, getting himself trapped inside tons of boulders. The hunters begin to torment Kong, causing the ape to get mad. He kills them all as a result. Now the Army has no choice but to kill the creature. Knowing that King Kong is on his way to save Lady Kong, the Army is prepared. The attack begins, but Kong manages to pass right through them and reaches the silo. Mitchell and Franklin were about to release Lady Kong when they noticed she was pregnant. Kongs saves the female ape, and they again escape. Suddenly, Lady Kong went into labor and falls on a barn. The Army arrives and King Kong has had enough. The Army fires at Kong, but Kong dispatches them. The shooting stops when Kong kills Col. Nevitt with one big knuckle punch. Hurt really bad, Kong reaches the barn just in time to see Lady Kong give birth to a son. Dr. Franklin and Mitchell look on. Pleased that he has a son, Kong dies. Later, Lady Kong is taken back to Borneo with her son.