movieId: 2108
title: L.A. Story
year: 1991
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0102250/
ratingValue: 
directors: Mick Jackson
actors: Steve Martin, Victoria Tennant, Richard E. Grant, Marilu Henner, Sarah Jessica Parker, Susan Forristal, Kevin Pollak, Sam McMurray, Patrick Stewart, Andrew Amador

synopsis:
Harris K. Telemacher (Steve Martin) is a TV weatherman living in Los Angeles and has had 7 heart attacks already. Harris has an ingenious route through the burbs to cut through LA traffic and to reach office on time.
LA is tranquil as ever with 72 degrees temperature and perfect blue skies. It's the sort of place where an old couple drives a Ferrari and lives life to the fullest. Harris is in a dead-end relationship with his social-climbing girlfriend Trudi (Marilu Henner) and feels his job requires him to be undignified and nonintellectual, though he holds a Ph.D. in arts and humanities. The weather in LA rarely changes from 72 degrees and sunny and as such Harris has to resort to humor and gags that he performs on air to keep the viewer interested.
Frank (Kevin Pollak) is Harris's agent and wants him to participate in a parade, which Harris does not want to. Harris wants to find some meaning and magic in his life, having grown increasingly weary of what he sees as the rather shallow and superficial city of L.A., from overly pretentious coffee orders (everybody wants a twist of lemon in their coffee) to bizarre shooting etiquette rules on the freeway (Open Season on the LA Freeways in Spring when people settle road rage issues by shooting at each other while driving on the freeway). People don't even notice an earthquake anymore and go on about their daily lives while the city shakes. Furthermore, he spends his time roller-skating through art galleries with his friend Ariel (Susan Forristal), offering eccentric art reviews to acquaintances, remixing Shakespeare a lot, and otherwise seeking to escape his ordinary life. Harris feels that Trudi does not respect him and makes him open the car door, every time she wants to get in or out of the car. Trudi is a shopper for corporate gifts. When big firms want to do a themed gift for their employees or clients, they call Trudi for ideas, and she also helps to them to fulfill the order. Harris likes to be on time when he is meeting friends for lunch and comes on time to pick Trudi. But Trudi makes him wait more than 30 minutes, and as a result Harris is late coming to lunch. But even then, Harris is the first to arrive.
At a luncheon with a group of friends, Harris meets Sara (Victoria Tennant), a journalist from London, with whom he immediately becomes infatuated. Sara is in LA doing a piece on the city for the London Times. Driving home that night, Harris's car breaks down on the freeway. He notices that a freeway traffic condition sign seems to be displaying messages intended solely for him. The signpost tells Harris that it likes to help people in trouble and says that Harris will know what to do when he unscrambles "How Daddy is Doing". Sara sees Harris's report on TV and wants to interview him for her piece. Harris takes her to the Museum of Music (which has novelties like Mozart's quill and Beethoven's testicles), and the cemetery with the grave of Shakespeare. Turns out Sara is a fan of Shakespeare as well.
Harris begins to fall for Sara, but she is conflicted because she has pledged to reconcile with her ex-husband, Roland (Richard E. Grant). Feeling that a relationship with Sara is unlikely, Harris begins dating SanDeE (Sarah Jessica Parker), a ditsy aspiring spokes-model, whom he meets at a clothing store. SanDeE was there to measure the clothes for customers for getting them fitted, if they decided to buy them. As SanDeE got down to measure the pants, Harris got a good look down her blouse, while SanDeE gets to run her hands up to the seat of his pants.
After his first date with SanDeE, Harris discovers that Trudi has been cheating on him for three years with his agent. The signpost tells Harris that the weather will change his life Twice. Harris had prerecorded a weather report for the weekend and predicted clear skies. It ended up raining heavily with high winds and the producer of the TV station lost his boat as he went sailing expecting clear skies. The following Monday, Harris is fired from his job. Harris decides to take SanDeE out for dinner at L'Idiot, an upmarket restaurant. He is asked to meet at a bank by the Maitre D' (Patrick Stewart) who looks at Harris's financial statements and decides that he can only afford the chicken. Harris is given a booking after 8 weeks. Harris makes plans for the weekend with SanDeE. Harris's interest in Sara is complicated by his new relationship with SanDeE and by Sara's feeling of obligation to Roland. Harris runs into Sara at the museum and gets invited for dinner by Sara and Roland. After dinner, Sara insists on dropping Harris back home.
Sara's car is taken over by an unknown force which drives it to the signpost, who tells Harris to kiss her.
Harris invites Sara to a fund-raising dinner the following night. The dinner is extremely boring, and they end up having sex in the garden of the house. Life is beautiful again. Harris meets SanDeE and cancels his date. SanDeE convinces Harris to go for the weekend, since Sara is gone with Roland for the weekend, as she wanted to keep the commitment before she got together with Harris. Unfortunately, both couples reach the same resort and are staying next to each other. Both couples end up having sex in their respective rooms. The couple run into each other at the resort and Sara is shocked.
Sara and Harris have a big fight with each other but figure out that they both still love each other.
Next morning, Harris learns that Sara has broken off with Roland and is returning to London. As Sarah's plane starts to push back at the gate, a heavy storm rolls in, delaying the take-off. Sara returns to Harris and they both kiss. By the conclusion, he has successfully wooed Sara, with some encouragement and advice from the sign.
Sara unscrambles the riddle to "Sing Doo Wah Diddy". The signpost asks for cable TV when Harris asks to thank it in some way.