movieId: 7450
title: Laws of Attraction
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0323033/
ratingValue: 
directors: Peter Howitt
actors: Pierce Brosnan, Julianne Moore, Michael Sheen, Parker Posey, Frances Fisher, Nora Dunn, Heather Ann Nurnberg, Johnny Myers, Mike Doyle, Allan Houston

synopsis:
New York City, Career orientated divorce attorney Audrey Woods (Julianne Moore) and her glamorous mother Sara Miller (Frances Fisher) pose as perspective buyers of a Manhattan townhouse belonging to the emperor of infomercials, Mr. Gary Harrison. Audrey is representing Harrison's wife, Mary (Brette Taylor), in the couples upcoming divorce, and has used this as an opportunity to take an inventory of the artworks that reside in the building.
Over lunch with Sara, Audrey comes to the conclusion that Harrison is attempting to scam his wife out of her entitled settlement, as some of the assets accumulated during the marriage have not been accounted for. Audrey is subsequently blind-sided by the news that Harrison has hired a new attorney, Daniel Rafferty (Pierce Brosnan). Audrey expresses her concern over Daniel's lackadaisical approach (He was sleeping in court) and offers a settlement prior to the case being taken before the judge, Daniel declines and Audrey is perturbed.
As the court is brought into session, Audrey is confident that female Judge Abramovitz (Nora Dunn), will look favorably upon their case as she is a fellow divorcee. However, some banter between Daniel and Abramovitz indicates that they are friends. Daniel reveals that the artwork, claimed unaccounted by Audrey, was actually donated by Mr. Harrison, with the consent of Mrs. Harrison to a prominent museum. The Judge awards him a week in continuance, as he needs time to investigate Mary Harrison's dealings, specifically those regarding her six-month retreat to a specialist clinic dealing in sexual addiction. Audery is dumb stuck. Later Audrey is invited to a Law Society event & Daniel reveals she is there only because he endorsed her invitation. He is attracted to her, but Audrey is repulsed by him. They both give speeches with Audrey taking a cold & calculating approach to divorce law but Daniel giving a heartfelt speech of the ethics of their profession.
Audrey attempts to make Daniel lower his guard by apologizing to him, & Daniel takes him to dinner. Later that night, they have sex. The next day in court Audrey argues that the prenup agreement is not valid as Mary deserves more than that. Daniel reminds of her speech the previous night "Intimacy changes nothing, business is business". Judge Abramovitz intervenes, states how neither counsel has proved to provide any evidence that the prenuptial was flawed in any way, to which she decrees a dismissal of the case, Daniel wins. Audrey is angry at Daniel for using her panties (which he had in possession from the previous night) to unsettle her in court. This failure sparks Audrey's victory over Daniel in their second meeting concerning the failed marriage of a basketball star. We then speed through a successive number of court appearances in which our protagonists meet head on as opposing counsel, and again and again we witness how each gives as good as each other gets in a successive number of cases. With each judge who presides over their arguments becoming even more infuriated by the animosity between the pair. Serena is a hip designer married to rock star husband Therone Jamison. in a chance meeting Audrey realizes Serena is having marriage troubles & gives her her own business card. As Audrey celebrates with her partners, she finds Serena lunching with Daniel. Serena informs Audrey that she decided against hiring her, and she believes Daniel to be the more vicious of the two. Audrey confronts Daniel & accuses him of stealing Serena, but he refuses any such notion.
Audrey takes Therone as her client. Both Thorne and Serena are ready to go to war over ownership of an Irish Castle that translated from its Gaelic name means 'Castle of Rock'.
It is the only thing that either one of them wants out of the divorce, as both claims that it was their own decision to buy it. Daniel & Audrey are forced to go to Ireland for the depositions. They share a car & spend a night together when Daniel manages to wreck it. The next morning, the rivalry is back but none of the castle employees is of any use as they just agree with whatever Audrey or Daniel say.
That night Audrey & Daniel get drunk & attend a local wedding & wake up married themselves. Frantic, Audrey wants the marriage annulled, she wants to tell the Priest that they didn't mean it. Daniel infers that he did.
On their way back Audrey tells Daniel that she will file for divorce. He is not able to change her mind. The next day New York times carries a feature article on Daniel & Audrey wedding. They decide to act upon the appearance of their 'faux' marriage to save face. To create this effect, Daniel moves into Audrey's apartment. And as he settles in for a life of domestic bliss, he finds his bride attaching a lock to her bedroom door. Daniel & Audrey resume the Serena Therone case with judge Abramovitz presiding. While at home Daniel sees Audrey's notes & finds a receipt for $ 4 MM for a condo in Aspen Colorado. Back in court, Audrey questions Serena's alleged fidelity, but Daniel reveals that Thorne spent $4million dollars on a home for his Mistress in Aspen. Audrey is devastated, Daniel is ashamed that he stooped so low, Thorne is furious, and Serena is livid. Audrey demands a divorce.
Daniel re-iterates that he loves Audrey. Sitting together, Sara comforts an emotional Audrey and reveals that it was in fact her that leaked the story to the press. In Judge Abramovitz's office, Audrey is informed that Thorne has absconded to Castle Rock. This is in breach of the court order concerning the property, and she gives her 48hours to bring him back. On arrival at the Castle, Audrey hears the screaming voices of Thorne and Serena, expecting the worst she bursts in on the pair, however she has interrupted them in the throes of passion.
Now that all have been reunited Thorne calls out for his butler, Michael (David Kelly). Daniel and Audrey recognize Michael as the Priest from the anniversary festival, and it transpires that they were never really married. Daniel makes his excuses and swiftly leaves; Audrey starts to cry. Inspired by this new-found confidence in her love, Audrey, Serena, and Thorne jump into his Hummer 4x4 and chase after Daniel to catch him before he makes his return flight to NYC, unfortunately Audrey misses him, and books herself on the next flight back. Shopping in the Chinese store underneath his office a lonely Daniel makes his way through the aisle, he hears a forlorn Audrey making a plea to his heart, to fight to save their 'marriage'. As Daniel looks towards Audrey, we cut to Judge Abramovitz's office. Having reprimanded the pair for all the hassle they have caused her, she asks Daniel whether he takes Audrey to be his wife, she accepts, and he accepts her, they kiss. The happily married couple makes their way to a waiting limo, and once inside they consummate the union. The driver warns them that they better put up their windows, as there is a 79% chance of rain in the next half-hour; a piece of advice he freely gives, as like Audrey, he is also an avid viewer of the weather channel. Taking this as a good sign Audrey and Daniel start to laugh, as together, they could weather any storm.