movieId: 4447
title: Legally Blonde
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0250494/
ratingValue: 
directors: Robert Luketic
actors: Reese Witherspoon, Luke Wilson, Selma Blair, Matthew Davis, Victor Garber, Jennifer Coolidge, Holland Taylor, Ali Larter, Jessica Cauffiel, Alanna Ubach

synopsis:
Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) is a senior at CULA which is a large college in southern California. She belongs to a sorority and everyone's excited because they are sure her boyfriend Warner (Matthew Davis) is about to propose to her.
When she is out to dinner, her boyfriend tells her that he's been thinking about their relationship and has decided that even though he loves her, they have to break up. He's going to Harvard Law school and eventually plans to run for political office, and he feels that Elle would be a hindrance. Elle is devastated and goes back to her sorority where she locks herself in her room for a week. She decides that the way to get her boyfriend back is to go to Harvard Law School. Elle's best friends and sorority sisters Margot (Jessica Cauffiel) and Serena (Alanna Ubach) are supportive, but cannot understand why Elle would want to do this.
She applies and actually studies hard for the law school entrance exam and does very well. She sends Harvard a video essay on herself in which we see her in several tight-fitting dresses and bikinis. The people on the admittance committee are very impressed by her "assets" and decide to admit her. Elle is a fish completely out of water and every one of the entering classes has credentials so much beyond her that they are all amazed that she is even there.
In the first five minutes of her first class, she gets tossed out because she didn't realize that they had a lesson to prepare. The instructor of the class Professor Elspeth Stromwell (Holland Taylor) asks one of the other students named Vivian (Selma Blair) whether or not Elle should be tossed out and Vivian says yes. Elle leaves the class and goes out to the courtyard where she talks to an older student Emmet (Luke Wilson), and he clues her into some of the things she should expect from the instructors. Warner shows up and she's thrilled to see him. Then Vivian shows up. Turns out that Warner is engaged to Vivian.
Vivian and Elle are enemies and Vivian tries to insult and play tricks on Elle such as telling Elle about a party and tells her it's a costume party even though it's not. This trick and the way Warner reacts to her at the party makes her decide to really start working at law school. In one of her classes, the instructor Professor Callahan (Victor Garber) is very impressed with her abilities and asks her to help out with a murder trial. The murder trial involves a younger woman, Brooke Taylor (Ali Larter), who supposedly murdered her husband. It turns out that the Brooke belonged to the same sorority as Elle, and she just can't believe she's guilty. The supposed murderess has a large exercise equipment and video business that Elle frequently used. Elle talks with Brooke and discovers that she has an alibi for the time of the murder, but she does not want it used. Brooke was getting liposuction at the time of the murder and thinks this will ruin her weight loss business. Elle tells Callahan that she cannot divulge the alibi. This impresses Vivian and she and Elle become friends.
The prosecution claims that the couples pool man has been having an affair with Brooke. During a break in the trial, the pool man makes a comment about Elle's shoes, and she realizes that he is gay. Emmet is also on the defense team of lawyers. He uses this information to trick the pool man into revealing he is gay and couldn't have had an affair with Brooke. Everyone is very impressed with Elle's intuition.
That evening after the days trial has ended, Callahan asks Elle into his office and tells her how very impressed he is with her abilities and wonders if she would be interested in an intern program with his law firm. She's very thrilled by the offer until he makes it clear what she will have to do to get the position. Elle is disgusted that he came on to her just because she's pretty and decides to quit Law School and go back to California. At a beauty parlor in the Harvard area, Elle is talking to a beautician Paulette (Jennifer Coolidge) she befriended earlier. She's telling her why she decided to leave and unknown to Elle, the woman teacher who threw her out of class overhears.
Professor Elspeth tells Elle that she thinks she has more talent than she's given credit for and shouldn't let this stop her from pursuing law. Elle tells Emmet what happened, and he talks to Brooke, and she decides to fire her Callahan and hire Elle. Elle takes over the case and starts to question the victim's daughter Chutney (Linda Cardellini). Brooke's stepdaughter claims that she had come home, got into the shower and when she got out, she went downstairs and found Brooke standing over her husband's body and she was covered in blood. Elle asks her what she had done earlier in the day. She claims she had gone out and gotten a perm. Elle starts questioning the daughter about how many perms she has had and then asks her what happens to a perm if it gets wet within 24 hours. Any fashion-conscious lawyer knows that a perm has to remain dry for 24 hours. The daughter becomes flustered and admits to the shooting, saying that she thought she was shooting Brooke and didn't realize it was her father. She was angry that the wife was her age.
The case is dismissed, and Elle is the heroine. Two years later, it is time for the Harvard Law School graduation. The woman who threw Elle out is talking to the graduating students. She introduces Elle who is going to give the commencement speech.
Vivian and Elle are good friends. Her ex-boyfriend graduates without honors and no job. Emmet and Elle have been dating for two years and he's going to propose that night.