movieId: 2001
title: Lethal Weapon 2
year: 1989
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0097733/
ratingValue: 
directors: Richard Donner
actors: Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, Joss Ackland, Derrick O'Connor, Patsy Kensit, Darlene Love, Traci Wolfe, Steve Kahan, Mark Rolston

synopsis:
Two years after the events of the first film, LAPD sergeants Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are pursuing unidentified suspects suspected of drug trafficking, only to find they have been transporting an illegal shipment of gold in the form of Krugerrand coins from the Afrikaner apartheid government of South Africa. Rigg and Murtaugh had been following the suspects across LA in Murtaugh's station wagon. The station wagon took heavy damage during the car chase and the duo were assisted by a large section of LAPD who coordinated their actions to block off all possible escape routes for the suspects. Due to the blockade, the suspects had to abandon their car, and were rescued by a helicopter. Riggs is as crazy as before. He had dislocated his shoulder one before, and now uses that to perform party tricks like getting out of a straight jacket under 5 minutes.
Murtaugh is married to Trish (Darlene Love) and his daughter Rianne (Traci Wolfe) has just featured in a condom commercial, which makes Murtagugh livid.
Later, consul-general Arjen Rudd (Joss Ackland) and security agent Pieter Vorstedt (Derrick O'Connor) kill Hans (Mark Rolston), their man who lost the shipment of Krugerrands, and debate how to stir the police away from their activities. Pieter suggests warning Murtaugh off the investigation and commits a home invasion on his residence. Pieter and his goons enter the house early in the morning, and duct tape Murtaugh and his wife and warn Murtaugh that from this point on, things will get bloody if he does not back off.
This causes Captain Murphy (Steve Kahan) to reassign Riggs and Murtaugh to protecting an obnoxious federal witness, Leo Getz (Joe Pesci). Leo Getz is supposed to depose in a Federal inquiry in Washington and is waiting for his paperwork to be processed. It soon becomes clear that both cases are related; after an attempt on Leo's life, Riggs and Murtaugh learn of the former's murky past laundering funds for vengeful drug smugglers. Leo admits to laundering $500 million for the drug smugglers, in exchange for 2% fee. Leo got caught when he started skimming off the top.
Leo provides them with information about how laundering works and leads them to the gang. Riggs and Murtaugh find Leo's attacker at the house and chase him on a tow truck.
But upon dispatching his would-be assassin and returning to the house with backup they are confronted by Rudd, who invokes diplomatic immunity on behalf of his unscrupulous "associates", leaving the LAPD powerless to take action against them. Rudd decides that he needs to move the money out of the US quickly. He also agrees that the warning to Murtaugh and Riggs did not work. Though instructed to leave the case alone, Riggs begins to openly harass the South African consulate, defying Rudd and romancing his secretary, Rika Van Den Haas (Patsy Kensit), a liberal-minded Afrikaner who despises her boss and his racial philosophy.
Murtaugh enlists Leo's help in creating a scene at the consulate that wins the support of anti-apartheid protesters outside.
Rudd sends his goons to Murtaugh's apartment who attach a bomb to his toilet. Riggs gets a call that Murtaugh hasn't checked in to the station that day, and he heads to Murtaugh's home and finds him sitting on the toilet. The bomb will go off if he moves. Riggs calls in the entire department to help. The bomb squad freezes the bomb with liquid nitrogen, giving Murtaugh 2 seconds to get off the toilet, and that saves his life. The bomb blows off Murtaugh's home. Vorstedt is dispatched to murder all of the officers investigating them while Murtaugh deduces that Rudd is attempting to ship funds from his smuggling ring in the United States to Cape Town via Los Angeles Harbor.
Two assassins attack Murtaugh at his home, but he kills them both with his contractor's nail gun, though Leo is abducted in the process. After killing many of the investigating officers, Vorstedt seizes Riggs at Van Den Haas' apartment and discloses that he was responsible for the death of Riggs's wife years earlier during a botched assassination attempt on him. He has his men kill Rika by drowning her and orders them to do the same to Riggs, who escapes and brutally kills both of the men. He phones Murtaugh, declaring an intention to pursue Rudd and avenge his wife, Rika, and their fallen friends; Murtaugh willingly forsakes his badge to aid his partner.
After rescuing Leo and destroying Rudd's house, they head for the Alba Varden, Rudd's freighter docked in the Port of Los Angeles, as the South Africans prepare their getaway with hundreds of millions in drug money. While investigating a guarded 40-foot cargo container at the docks, Riggs and Murtaugh discover Rudd's laundered drug money, but are locked inside by Rudd's men. They break out of the box, scattering two pallets of the money into the harbor in the process.
Riggs and Murtaugh engage in a firefight with some of Rudd's men aboard the Alba Varden before separating to hunt down Rudd. Riggs confronts and fights Vorstedt hand-to-hand, culminating when Riggs stabs Vorstedt with his own knife and crushes him to death by dropping a container on him. Rudd retaliates by shooting Riggs in the back multiple times. Rudd, his gun now empty, again invokes diplomatic immunity upon seeing Murtaugh aim his gun at him. Murtaugh fatally shoots him and declares that his immunity has "just been revoked".
Murtaugh then tends to Riggs, whom he believes may be dying and encourages him to hang on and that he is not dead until he says he is. Discovering Riggs survived the shooting, they share a laugh as more LAPD personnel respond to the scene.