movieId: 4187
title: Lilies of the Field
year: 1963
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0057251/
ratingValue: 
directors: Ralph Nelson
actors: Sidney Poitier, Lilia Skala, Lisa Mann, Isa Crino, Francesca Jarvis, Pamela Branch, Stanley Adams, Dan Frazer, Bobby Driscoll

synopsis:
Lilies Of The Field is the story of a group of Catholic nuns who escape from the Communist held portion of Berlin and come to the United States. They have a small holding in a southwestern state where they are attempting to set up a school, hospital and chapel to serve the people of the area whose only place of worship is a mobile field chapel serviced by a priest who travels to the many small towns in the area providing masses, christenings and other services. Homer Smith, played by Poitier, is a black traveling handyman who lives on the road in his station wagon. Smith is a baptist. Smith is hired to do some small jobs for the sisters, and is eventually convinced to "Build a Schapel" for the nuns. During the course of the movie, Smith and the Mother Superior butt heads again and again over who is building the Chapel, who is providing the materials and drive. Smith is agitated with the stony hard-driving Mother Superior whose unbending nature eventually causes him to leave. The attitude of the Mother Superior is that "God" is building the chapel for them using Smith as the tool. Smith returns and begins to take a personal interest in the chapel and is determined to build it unaided. During the course of the movie his determination convinces the members of the community, believer and un-believer to contribute materials and labor to the task. The chapel is eventually completed, the Mother Superior unbends a little, the community unites and Smith hits the road with their respect and thanks, and a feeling of personal accomplishment. A movie with subtle depth, great characters and a "watch it again" appeal that is not found in many of the current (1980-to date) movies, and which the bulk of these have failed to deliver. One of the many high-lights of this film is the Gospel song: Amen sung by Portier and the nuns. Let's face it. You can watch the fated lovers on the Titanic only so many times. This movie is timeless in its appeal.