movieId: 7701
title: Look Who's Talking Too
year: 1990
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0100050/
ratingValue: 
directors: Amy Heckerling
actors: John Travolta, Kirstie Alley, Olympia Dukakis, Elias Koteas, Twink Caplan, Bruce Willis, Roseanne Barr, Damon Wayans, Gilbert Gottfried, Mel Brooks

synopsis:
Mollie (Kirstie Alley) and James (John Travolta) are married. They are teaching their baby Mikey (Lorne Sussman) on how to use the potty. Meanwhile, James is working diligently to bring in more income for the family. The movie opens with Mollie and James preparing to have sex. Mikey gets scared and calls James into the room. He goes to check on him and returns to Mollie. Although she fell asleep, he gets her back in the mood, and they continue. The film cuts to his sperm cells traveling toward her egg. However, it teases them since the diaphragm is blocking them from getting it. One manages to get around it, and a baby girl is conceived. They tell Mikey that he's got to be potty-trained. Mollie discovers she's pregnant. Mikey learns that with his new baby sister on the way, he has to be a responsible big brother. When she is about to be born, her umbilical cord gets caught around her neck, putting her in distress. She is born through a C-section and is taken to the nursery. She is named Julie (Megan Milner). When she and Mikey meet, he says hello, and she asks, "Who's this a**hole?" He gets jealous of her immediately. Mikey begins to resent his sister shortly after she is born when the reality does not match what he dreamed being a big brother would be like. He finds Julie annoying and resents sharing both toys and his parents' attention and being constantly mean to her as a result. In turn, Julie is not impressed by Mikey, who struggles with potty training, having several accidents despite encouragement from his friends and family. James is provided a job as a full-time pilot thanks to Mollie's parents and the longer work hours strain the couple's relationship. The couple also have parenting disputes with James believing Mollie to be overprotective and too high strung. One day, Mikey and his playmate, Eddie (Danny Pringle), try to walk off with her stroller and decide to ditch her at the zoo. Mollie stops the boys and when she does, she catches them with a crack pipe (which greatly disgusts and frightens her). Meanwhile, Mollie's slacker younger brother, Stuart (Elias Koteas) comes to stay, to whom James takes an immediate dislike. James is upset that Mollie does not even consult him about it. James is further frustrated when Stuart pulls an (unloaded) gun on him thinking he's an intruder. He wants Stuart out immediately and Mollie insists on talking to him first seeing nothing wrong with him having a gun or leaving messes everywhere.
Mollie and James fight about her brother Stuart staying there which leads to her kicking James out. Stuart soon develops a romance with Mollie's best friend Rona (Twink Caplan), and they even start dating. Mikey is upset about James being gone and out of anger, he tears up one of Julie's favorite stuffed penguins (which she calls "her friend, Herbert"). James occasionally hangs out with his kids (including scamming their way into a movie theater) and has fun with them. Meanwhile, Mikey is having trouble using a potty, so he gets some advice from Eddie, who's already potty trained. However, he warns him about Mr. Toilet Man, who's actually just a figment of their imaginations. Meanwhile, after her apartment is robbed, Mollie's friend Rona comes to stay with them, and she begins to date Stuart. During one of James' visits, he takes Mikey and Julie to the movies. Mikey finally realizes he was too hard on his sister and she wasn't to blame for their dad leaving. Later, when Julie decides she doesn't need Mikey and wants to strike out on her own, she is inspired to walk unsupported. Mollie sees this and showers Julie with affection for her accomplishment, but the happiness is short lived, as James is not there to share the moment. Mollie realizes that she needs James to help her. She dresses up in an attempt to get back together with him.
A few days later, Mikey accomplishes going to the bathroom on his own, which is a celebration both of them share with him. Mollie exclaims that she hasn't felt that happy about him since he was born. One night as James prepares to fly, Mollie watches the news and learns that storms are all around the area. She goes to get James before he takes off, leaving Stuart with Mikey and Julie. She catches him and tries to persuade him not to take off, just as the control tower cancels the flight. They then make up. Meanwhile, a burglar (presumably the same one who also robbed Rona) breaks in and runs when Stuart comes in with his unloaded gun. Forgetting that Mikey and Julie are in the apartment, Stuart gives chase leaving them home alone. He is also left the stove on and a towel on the stove causing a fire to spread through the apartment. Thinking quickly Mikey pushes Julie in her bouncer out of harm's way. He promises to take care of her when she tells him she is afraid of the "hot stuff" which he tells her not to touch. Meanwhile, James and Mollie make up in the plane when the flight is canceled. James asks Mollie if she's happy about being right. She tells him that she loves him and no longer cares about who's right. They return home to see the fire through the kitchen window. Momentarily panicked they are relieved as Mikey exits the elevator with Julie in tow. James runs to the apartment and puts out the fire before any major damage is caused. Mollie admits that leaving the kids with Stuart was a bad idea which James is pleased to hear. Later, at a family barbecue Julie and Mikey have a conversation on how strange adults they are. Julie is grateful to Mikey for saving them from the fire and he sees how much they are needed in each other's lives. He tells Julie that it is them against the grown-ups and that he loves her. She agrees saying "big ones don't make any sense" and the two walk off together hand in hand.