movieId: 4621
title: Look Who's Talking
year: 1989
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0097778/
ratingValue: 
directors: Amy Heckerling
actors: John Travolta, Kirstie Alley, Olympia Dukakis, George Segal, Abe Vigoda, Bruce Willis, Twink Caplan, Jason Schaller, Jaryd Waterhouse, Jacob Haines

synopsis:
Mollie Jensen (Kirstie Alley) is an accountant living and working in New York City. The latest client she has been assigned by her firm is a charmingly handsome but shallow, womanizing executive named Albert (George Segal). He seduces her, and although he is married, he embarks on an affair with her, promising to leave his wife Beth for her.
Mollie lives with her mother Rosie (Olympia Dukakis) and her father Louie. Mollie insists that their relationship has to stop; however, succumbing to temptation, she proceeds to have sex with him, and becomes pregnant. The fetus, heard only by the audience, begins making commentary on his development. Mollie is 33 years old. Once she realizes this, she informs Albert, who takes the news well and again promises to leave his wife and raise the baby with her. Until then, she decides to tell her eccentric and overbearing parents that there is no father and that she became pregnant via a sperm donor.
Mollie's diet changes as per the preferences of the baby. She starts eating ice-cream and drinks apple juice as that's what the baby wants. She continues her relationship with Albert as the pregnancy develops; however, she fears he is seeing another woman, Melissa (Joy Boushel). Later, when she and her best friend, Rona (Twink Caplan), are shopping, she finds him in a clinch with Melissa. Albert admits that he is in love with Melissa and has decided to live with her as he has separated from Beth. Angry and upset, a heartbroken Mollie storms off in a rage while the fight causes her to suddenly go into labor. When she hails a cab, the driver, James Ubriacco (John Travolta), realizes the seriousness of the situation and speeds off to the hospital. Upon reaching the hospital, the nurses mistake him for the baby's father, and he feels inclined to stay. She gives birth to a son and names him Michael, "Mikey" (Bruce Willis) for short. A few days after he is brought home, she receives a visit from James, and he returns the purse she left behind in his taxi. He meets Mikey, and they seem to enjoy each other's company. Mikey's thoughts the audience continues to hear. Over the next month, Mollie is dealing with being a single parent and Mikey is becoming used to his new world. Mikey figures out that Mollie comes running as soon as he starts crying and runs her ragged as he grows up. Mollie also goes through Post-Partum depression.
Mollie discovers that James has been using her address to keep his grandfather Vincent (Abe Vigoda) in a nursing home in the local area, when she finds James stealing mail out of her mailbox. She confronts him and he offers to babysit Mikey if she lets him continue to use the address, to which she agrees.
Mikey quickly grows up to be a toddler. She starts dating again but quickly realizes that none of the men she has been seeing are good enough for Mikey. We see three of them with her at restaurants, then we see her imagining how they'd treat him after witnessing their behaviors: the first angrily berates the waiter for messing up his order and she imagines him being an abusive father; the second is a fastidious neat freak who she sees as too uptight (perhaps admonishing Mikey in the future for mixing white socks with black ones); the third is a man named Harry who works with her father. James tricks him into taking advantage of her by having her pay for everything. Mikey, having seen his friends' fathers at the playground, decides that James should be his father.
James, who moonlights as a flight instructor, takes Mollie flying, and she begins to fall for him. James tells Mollie that he loves her and Mikey, but she believes he is too immature to be Mikey's father. One night, she lets her guard down and almost sleeps with James; however, after imagining what life would be like if she married him, she asks him to leave, despite him telling her he loves both her and Mikey. Soon after, Mollie is forced to help Albert with his taxes, when he pleads with her to let him see Mikey. She agrees but forgets to inform James, who is babysitting him. A fight ensues when Albert arrives and claims to be Mikey's father; James does not believe this is possible, as Mollie had told him she used a sperm donor. They get into an argument, and Albert leaves. Mollie admits that it might be best for everyone if James wasn't in Mikey's life. Mollie allows James to say goodbye to Mikey; he gives him a few pieces of fatherly advice as Mollie listens over the baby monitor. Mollie takes Mikey to Albert's office to meet him, but Albert's behavior shows that he is still too callous and selfish to be the full-time father Mikey needs, and Mollie leaves him for good. Mollie proceeds to destroy his office with the help of a very enthusiastic Mikey. She receives a call from the nursing home James' grandfather is living at complaining about his behavior. She explains to the manager why his behavior had been so bad, and he agrees to let him stay, believing her to be his wife. She runs into James outside the office; he had overheard the discussion, and he thanks her. While Mollie is pleading with the manager, Mikey escapes from James' grandfather. First, he wanders into the cafeteria and then the kitchen. After he sees a taxi outside the nursing home and believes it to be James', he climbs in as it is taken away by a tow truck. After leaving it, he ends up standing in the middle of open traffic, looking for James' taxi. James and Mollie rescue him from the street, and when he calls him "Da-da," she sees that he is not only perfect for Mikey, but perfect for her, as well. They kiss, with Mikey looking on happily. James and an older Mikey are shown walking through the hospital to see Mollie (now married to James), who has just given birth to Mikey's half-sister, Julie (Joan Rivers).