movieId: 6946
title: Looney Tunes: Back in Action
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0318155/
ratingValue: 
directors: Joe Dante
actors: Brendan Fraser, Jenna Elfman, Steve Martin, Timothy Dalton, Heather Locklear, Joan Cusack, Bill Goldberg, Don Stanton, Dan Stanton, Dick Miller

synopsis:
The film takes place about 8 years after the events of "Space Jam". when the Warner Brothers Inc. Studio Company in Hollywood, Los Angeles announces a Bugs Bunny Movie, Bugs Bunny Esq. gets a starring role in the new movie, but his jealous frienemy Daffy Horacio Tiberius Armando Sheldon Duck wants to be in it too, fed up with villainous roles and overshadowing. However, studio executive Katelyn "Kate" Houghton looks at the numbers, and sees that nobody wants Daffy. She fires Daffy and orders him off the Warner Bros lot. a security guard named Damien "DJ" Drake Jr. must escort Daffy off the lot. Daffy does not leave easily and DJ must chase Daffy all around the Hollywood street causing tremendous damage to the studio and accidentally causes the Warner Bros' Water-Tower to fall down and cause a giant flood. DJ is also fired and kicked off the lot. He goes home, not knowing that Daffy is hiding in his backpack. At home, DJ gets a message from his famous movie-superstar father, Damien Drake, is actually a secret spy agent in real life. and that Doctor Luther J. Chairman, the dark evil president, now-owner (after the original founder Marvin Acme was murdered) and chairman of the evil Acme Corporation (likely located in Fairfield City, New Jersey) is holding him prisoner and wants an ancient mysterious magical legendary mythical blue monkey-shaped gem called: "The Blue Monkey Diamond" which has the supernatural powers to transform humans into monkeys so that Mr Chairman can shift all mankind into monkeys to use as slaves. Damien tells him in the message to go to Dusty Tails at Las Vegas, DJ must first find the Blue Monkey Diamond before the Acme Corporation does to save the world. DJ and Daffy join forces to find the Blue Monkey Diamond and then save his father and go in his old yellow pizza gremlin car. back at Warner Bros, they try to film the movie without Daffy, but fail. Mr Warner, the boss and owner of Warner Bros wants him back and sends Kate to get him back. Kate and Bugs arrive at DJ's house and realise that DJ went to Las Vegas with Daffy. they find Damien's secret spy car and use it to track the others to Las Vegas. Daffy and DJ arrive at the city of Las Vegas, Nevada and find Dusty Tails at Yosemite Sam's Western casino hotel restaurant, she gives them a "queen of diamonds" playing card and tells them about the Blue Monkey. Yosemite Sam and his other cowboys reveal that they are secretly evil agents for Acme and chase Daffy and DJ through the saloon trying to take the card, but Daffy and DJ escape and bump into Kate and Daffy and they all have a big city car chase across Las Vegas. they eventually all escape by putting the spy car in flying car mode and fly it out of Las Vegas, Sam has a car crash into a giant pile of explosives, resulting in a giant explosion. they crash into the desert and get marooned, until they find a Walmart store nearby and buy food and water supplies to survive. then they find Area#52 and a woman that works there named Mother shows them a video about the Blue Monkey and its supernatural magical powers to shift humans into monkeys. soon, one of the aliens there named Marvin The Martian receives a message from Mr Chairman of the Acme Corporation and Marvin escapes and breaks all the alien monsters out and attack Bugs, Daffy, DJ and Kate. they luckily manage to get out just in time. DJ looks closely at the card and notices it has the Mona Lisa's face on it, so they all go to the Museum of Paris, France and look closely at the Mona Lisa. DJ dissects the card in half and realises that half of it is an X-Ray, they X-Ray the Mona Lisa and take a photo of the X-Ray, which reveals that it has the map of the African jungle to the location of the Blue Monkey. Elmer J. Fudd jumps out and reveals that he was secretly a dark evil Acme Agent all along. he tries to steal the card and they have a big chase through the paintings of the Art Gallery 'til Elmer turns into tiny art pigments after chasing them through a pigment-made painting and forgets to change back to his normal form when he comes out, leaving Bugs just enough time to completely disintegrate him to smithereens using a wind fan before he can change back. meanwhile, Kate gets kidnapped by Mr Smith, Mr Chairman's assistant and sidekick. Mr Smith takes Kate up the Eiffel Tower and steals the camera with the X-Ray photo and tries to escape in a helicopter with the help of Beaky Buzzard The Vulture, Kate and DJ try to stop him but Kate has a giant fall from the tower. but DJ luckily catches her and saves her with a grappling hook. DJ, Bugs, Kate and Daffy travel to the jungles of Africa to find the Blue Monkey. they find DJ's neighbours, Grandmother Emily "Granny" Webster, an old woman with several pets: Sylvester James Pussycat and Tweetybird The Canary riding on an elephant through the jungle for a holiday. they all go together and find the Blue Monkey, though Granny and her pets soon take off disguises and reveal that they were actually Mr Chairman and his Acme Agents. they're teleported to The Acme Corporation building and they steal the Blue Monkey and take DJ and Kate as prisoner with Damien. they give the Blue Monkey to Marvin who takes it up into space to an Acme-owned Martian satellite near Planet Mars, Bugs and Daffy secretly follow him into space in a spare Acme escape vessel spaceship that they steal from Marvin. DJ and Kate manage to undo to ropes tied around them, only to be confronted by a giant evil Acme robot cyber-dog. Kate and DJ get into a fight with the dog while Damien is chained to a railway trap with TNT crates. DJ jumps to the railway trap just in time as the train (which is being driven by Wile Ethelbert Coyote, a hungry and super-genius coyote who works for Acme) goes by and he saves Damien. the TNT, however, is pushed underneath the train and explodes after it goes past. meanwhile in space, Marvin puts the Blue Monkey into the giant laser beam-satellite and attempts to zap the universe to transform all mankind into monkeys. Bugs comes with a carrot-light-saber and Daffy comes dressed as Duck Dodgers, they have a big epic space battle with Marvin and manage to blow up the satellite and foil Marvin and Acme's plan before it can zap the world and only one small bit of energy from the diamond makes it to Earth but only zaps Mr Chairman who turns into a monkey. Marvin tries to stop Bugs and Daffy with his Bubble-Gun, but it explodes as well and traps Marvin in a giant bubble and flies off into outer space. Bugs and Daffy return to the Acme tower and have saved the universe, only to walk out of a fake film-set back at Warner Bros and realise that none of it really happened and was just a movie being filmed that whole time. Daffy and Bugs decide that both of them are just as good and Daffy would never have any more "second-banana" again. Daffy thinks forward to his future career, knowing that this is just the beginning, only to be squashed by the Looney Toons' logo and the film ends.