movieId: 7354
title: Mad Dog and Glory
year: 1993
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0107473/
ratingValue: 
directors: John McNaughton
actors: Robert De Niro, Uma Thurman, Bill Murray, David Caruso, Mike Starr, Tom Towles, Kathy Baker, Derek Anunciation, Doug Hara, Evan Lionel

synopsis:
Wayne 'Mad Dog' Dobie (Robert De Niro) is a shy Chicago Police Department crime scene photographer who has spent years on the job without ever drawing his gun; his colleagues jokingly call him "Mad Dog". Detective Pavletz (Anthony Cannata) is Wayne's colleague. Wayne and his partner Mike was called upon at 2 am to cover a car shooting. Wayne finds one dead body in the car and one in the trunk, and determines the shooter's hand to be covered in blood, due to blow backs. Wayne saves the life of mob boss Frank Milo (Bill Murray) during a hold-up in a convenience store (Wayne had gone there to get a Twinkie for Pavletz. it turns out the shooter from the car shooting was jacking the store and Mile happened to be in it and was taken hostage (while the owner of the store was shot), when Wayne walks in). Wayne calms the shooter down and allows him the escape through the back door, saving Milo's life.
Wayne leads a lonely life and yearns for some meaningful relationship. Milo sends his guy Harold (Mike Starr) to invite Wayne to his party. Milo tells Wayne that his therapist made him realize that what Wayne did was very brave and compassionate. Milo does his own stand-up comedy act in his club and Wayne is very honest to him and says that maybe he can do a few jokes at his own expense. Milo likes his honesty and says that he always like people when they are upfront and straight with him. he doesn't like sneaky liars. Milo spends the whole night with Wayne, exchanging jokes and Milo learns that Wayne wishes that he was brave, and a real artist. He offers Wayne a gift in return: for one week, he will have the "personal services" of Glory (Uma Thurman), a young woman who works as a bartender at Milo's club. Wayne goes to work and finds that the shooter from the night before is found dead in a dumpster. Wayne sees Milo's hand in it. He comes back home and wants Glory to leave. But Glory tells him that her brother owes Milo and unless he pays up, she is the trade. So, if Wayne sends her back, Milo will add another few months to her trade with him.
Wayne is next door neighbor to Lee (Kathy Baker), who is in an abusive relationship with Andrew (Tom Towles), but Wayne is too timid to help her. Mike stands up to Andrew and makes him walk away from Lee without a fight. Wayne learns that Glory is trying to pay off a personal debt (Glory's brother borrowed money from Milo and couldn't pay back. So, Milo took over the business and used it for his illegal ops, and her brother tried to commit suicide. That's when Glory went in, asked Milo to spare his life and offered to serve Milo in any way he wanted) and wants nothing to do with Milo after the debt is paid off. After an awkward start, where Wayne thinks Glory does sex jobs for Milo, but Glory says that she was sexually assaulted one time while doing a job for Milo, but otherwise she only delivers things and what happens is up to her. Wayne tries to have sex with Glory, but fails, as he hasn't had sex in many years. They get talking instead.
Glory offers to pose nude for Wayne as his muse, and that's how Wayne is able to have sex with her. Wayne realizes that he is in love with Glory, but Milo comes by and reminds Frank that he has 3 days left with her. Milo also warns Glory not to take advantage of Milo's generosity.
Wayne wants her to move into his apartment, but Milo has no intention of letting Glory go. Milo sends Harold to enforce the threat. Wayne's partner, Mike (David Caruso), saves Wayne from Harold and fights him off. Milo asks Wayne to serve him instead of Glory for 1 yr, and pick up his phone whenever he calls, but Wayne cannot give up his integrity either. Milo says that Wayne has to pay $40,000 (he reduces the price from $75,000 since Wayne saved his life) to give Glory her freedom. Wayne has 3 days to give the money or give up Glory. Wayne does not reveal the ask to Glory or to Mike and says that Milo backed off. Wayne empties his bank account and borrows money from his friends (telling them about an investment scheme). When Mike finds out he refuses to help out Wayne as he doesn't think buying Glory from Milo is the right approach. Glory catches Wayne counting cash in the bathroom and figures out the deal. She asks Wayne to save his money and goes back to her apartment as Milo will never let her go. Wayne does his best to get the money but falls short by $12,500. Milo had arrived with his troops to enforce the deal, but Mike shows up with a bunch of cops for the showdown. Knowing that Mike can't protect him, he courageously stands up to Milo himself (He asks Milo to fight him for Glory) and ends up brawling with Milo in the street. Glory intervenes suspecting that Milo might kill Wayne. Seeing that the two are in love with each other, Milo concedes and makes peace with Wayne and lets Glory go with no strings attached.