movieId: 3752
title: Me, Myself & Irene
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0183505/
ratingValue: 
directors: Bobby Farrelly, Peter Farrelly
actors: Jim Carrey, Renée Zellweger, Anthony Anderson, Mongo Brownlee, Jerod Mixon, Chris Cooper, Michael Bowman, Richard Jenkins, Robert Forster, Mike Cerrone

synopsis:
Charlie Baileygates (Jim Carrey) is an 18-year veteran of the Rhode Island State Police trooper who has been taken advantage of by people throughout his life. Charlie lives in a modest home next to the water but is not much of a swimmer himself.
Back in the past, immediately after his marriage, his shrewd wife, Layla (Traylor Howard), cheats on him with a violate dwarf limousine driver, named Shonte (Tony Cox). Like Layla, Shonte is a member of Mensa and a dwarf with a genius-level IQ. Layla and Shonte met on Charlie's wedding day as he was their limo driver. Shonte is a tenured professor on molecular genetics at a University. He drives a limo as a sociological experiment. Although Charlie's friends try informing him of his wife's infidelity, he still denies the possibility even after his wife gives birth to 3 African American sons. Layla eventually runs off with Shonte; leaving Charlie to raise three African American sons (also geniuses) that are the products of Layla's adulterous affair with the limo driver. The sons build an airworthy plane as kids with general household items and were about to take off when Charlie arrived and stopped them in time. Charlie never sees his wife ever again. His wife affair and abandonment leaves Charlie so emotionally damaged to such the extent that he lets himself be verbally and physically abused by others. Despite him being a police officer, all his neighbors and other citizens reject his authority with open scorn because they see him as a pushover as well as a weak and ineffective person. Flashing forward 15 years, Charlie continues to raise and spoil his three illegitimate African American sons Jamal (Anthony Anderson), Lee Harvey (Mongo Brownlee) and Shonté Jr. (Jerod Mixon), all of whom have become overweight from poor and unbalanced diets as well as use vulgar and profane language from being allowed to watch foul-mouthed stand-up comedian movies from Richard Pryor to Chris Rock. Yet, all people in town continue to treat Charlie with scorn and abuse; his own neighbor steals his newspaper Ed and allows his pet dog to defecate on the front lawn of his house; a little girl curses and insults him; a mutual friend continues to illegally park his car and tear up parking tickets that Charlie gives him. Every towns-person on the street that Charlie interacts with takes advantage of his kind personality to further abuse him. After all the continuous abuse and disrespect, Charlie's anger builds up, but he continues to keep it repressed until suddenly after a shrewd "soccer mom" deliberately cuts in front of him at a supermarket line, Charlie suddenly develops a rude, foul-mouthed, violent split personality named Hank. Within minutes, "Hank" gets revenge against all the people that have done "Charlie" wrong until he gets arrested by his own police co-workers. At the urging of his boss Colonel Partington (Robert Forester), Charlie visits a psychiatrist who tells him that his alter-ego Hank was created by decades of repressed anger and frustration, stemming from his wife's abandonment to his friends and neighbors scorning him, which has led to "advanced delusional schizophrenia with involuntary narcissistic rage." Charlie created Hank with his tendency to avoid confrontation. The psychiatrist prescribes him a medicine to keep his double personality suppressed.
Meanwhile, a woman named Irene was arrested in Rhode Island, and it was discovered that she has an outstanding warrant against her in New York.
It was reported that she committed a hit and run, which Irene says was actually committed by Dickie (Daniel Greene), Irene's partner. Irene insists her mob-connected ex-boyfriend Dickie fabricated the accusation to keep her from revealing his illegal activities to the authorities, after she ran away from him. Col. Partington says that as per law he will have to have Irene escorted back to New York till the charges against her are cleared.
Believing that Charlie needs a vacation, Col. Partington tells him to escort a woman named Irene Waters (Renée Zellweger) to Massena, New York. At Massena, Irene is taken into custody by EPA agents who explain that her life may be in danger due to her association to Dickie.
When some hit men arrive with a contract on Irene's life, Charlie agrees to help her escape, when one of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) agents is killed by the hit men. Charlie leaves his medicine behind, causing his alter ego, Hank, to surface any time he wants.
Charlie takes Irene to meet Police officer Gerke, adamant to prove that the police are not the bad guys. But in this case, Irene was right and Gerke was actually working for Dickie. Gerke tries to kill Irene, but Hank surfaces and manages to fight off Gerke and take his car.
Hank explains the schizophrenia to Irene and says that he and Charlie are 2 different people. FBI agent Peterson (Zen Gesner) suspects that Charlie is responsible for the assassination of the EPA agent. Boshane (Richard Jenkins) and Gerke (Chris Cooper), two crooked police officers on Dickie's payroll are also chasing Irene. The chase becomes a media spectacle, alerting Charlie's sons to his predicament. Charlie and Irene return to Rhode Island, bonding along the way. Although Irene is taken by Charlie's personality, Hank worries her, as his aggressive personality and overestimation of his own toughness often gets them into trouble. Along the way, they pick up "Whitey" (Michael Bowman), an albino waiter who claims to have killed his entire family. While stopping at a motel, Hank convinces Irene to have sex with him by impersonating Charlie. When Charlie realizes what happened the next morning, he is incensed and begins fighting with Hank. They are almost ambushed by Boshane and Gerke, but Charlie's sons, having found them, steal a police helicopter and call in a false report, stating Charlie and Irene have been apprehended in the woods nearby. Charlie and Irene leave Whitey at the motel and board a train to Rhode Island. Dickie boards the same train, having been ordered by his police allies to "get his hands dirty". He kidnaps Irene, and Charlie chases him, working together with Hank to save her. Hank balks when Dickie heads onto a bridge, but Charlie finally faces his fears, thus permanently nullifying Hank. As Charlie tries to disarm Dickie, Dickie shoots off Charlie's thumb. Whitey then throws a lawn dart at Dickie, hitting him from behind and killing him. Charlie and Irene fall from the bridge into the river below, where his sons arrive to rescue them. Regrouping with Whitey, Charlie apologizes for making him kill again, but Whitey reveals he made up his backstory, fearing Hank. The police arrive, quickly learning of Irene's plight. Gerke and Boshane are arrested, Charlie is praised for bringing them to justice, and Irene is cleared of the charges against her. Irene prepares to leave Rhode Island when the police pull her over, but this is only a diversion so Charlie can propose, which she happily accepts. In a post-credits scene, everyone looks for Charlie's thumb in the river. Whitey finds it, but a fish eats it.