movieId: 1580
title: Men in Black
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119654/
ratingValue: 
directors: Barry Sonnenfeld
actors: Tommy Lee Jones, Will Smith, Linda Fiorentino, Vincent D'Onofrio, Rip Torn, Tony Shalhoub, Siobhan Fallon Hogan, Mike Nussbaum, Jon Gries, Sergio Calderón

synopsis:
Agent K (Tommy Lee Jones) is a member of the Men in Black (MIB), a secret agency without ties to any government, whose goal is to maintain Earth as a "neutral zone" for extraterrestrial aliens, whom they disguise as humans around New York City. The agency maintains its secrecy by using a Neuralyzer to wipe the memories of those that encounter either them or the aliens, and also the memories of former agents when they retire. Operating from an underground base at a Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority ventilation station, they fund themselves by obtaining patents on alien technologies released for consumer consumption. K's former partner D has just retired after an incident at a border line between the U.S and Mexico where an alien disguised as a human almost killed a INS Officer but K finds New York City detective James Darrell Edwards III (Will Smith) as a potential replacement, due to his ability to follow a disguised alien. After putting Edwards through several tests, K offers him the chance to join the MIB. Edwards' identity is erased, and he becomes Agent J, K's partner. K orients J about the MIB; during this, they learn that numerous alien refugees are fleeing the Earth. MIB is contacted by an Arquillian fleet in Earth orbit; the fleet warns that a "Bug," a member of a giant cockroach-like species that are at war with several alien races, has come to Earth searching for an object known as the Galaxy. It's infinite power could turn the tide of war in favor of the Bugs. To prevent this, they are willing to destroy the Earth unless the MIB can secure the Galaxy before their deadline, only hours away. Agent K and Agent J find the Bug is disguised using the skin of farmer Edgar (Vincent D'Onofrio) after killing the human. It already killed two Arquillians it believed had the Galaxy. The two bodies, along with a cat that refuses to leave its owner, are taken to the city morgue. There, Dr. Laurel Weaver (Linda Fiorentino) discovers one of the tiny Arquillians is barely alive inside its human looking robot; struggling with English, it whispers to her that "The Galaxy is on Orion's belt" before it expires. K and J arrive to help remove the alien bodies and wipe Laurel's mind, but not before learning about this message. En route back to headquarters, they realize that Orion refers to Rosenberg's cat and the belt would mean the cat's collar. Racing back to the morgue, they encounter the bug who has figured out the same thing. It steals the Galaxy, which hangs in a small charm and kidnaps Laurel, escaping while the MIB secure its spacecraft to prevent it from leaving the planet. As the Arquillian deadline looms, the MIB tries to figure out how Edgar will leave. J then recalls from his initial briefing that the observation towers at Flushing Meadows are disguised spacecraft. Agents K and J race there, finding Edgar climbing one of the structures. Their arrival distracts the Bug but it enters the craft and starts the engines. The agents fire on the ship, forcing it to crash. As the two face off against Edgar, it rips through its disguise, swallows their guns and knocks them across the field. K tells J to keep the Bug from getting to the second ship by creating a distraction. K goads the Bug to eat him, which it does by swallowing him whole. J keeps the Bug distracted by stepping on cockroaches around a nearby dumpster. Before J can be eaten by the enraged Bug he tells the bug to get out of his face before something bad happens. K having found his gun in the Bug's stomach, then blasts his way out, ripping the alien in half. K is slime covered but safe and J picks up the the Galaxy from among the contents of the Bug's stomach. The news is then relayed to the Arquillian fleet, saving the Earth. While J and K are recovering from their battle, the top-half of the bug suddenly rears up behind them, but Laurel shoots the bug with J's gun which was ejected from the Bug's stomach. As MIB cleans up the situation, and K apparently prepares to Neuralyze Laurel, he admits that he was not training J as a partner but as his replacement, as he is ready to retire from the agency. J reluctantly acknowledges this and Neuralyzes him. In the epilogue, Laurel is Agent J's new partner Agent L, while K (now Kevin Brown) has returned to civilian life and the girl he left behind, and J and L began to investigate more aliens disguised as humans as they drive away the headquarters.
As the camera pans out, showing the Earth, solar system and eventually the galaxy, it is revealed that the galaxy is itself in a marble. A pair of alien hands finish playing with it and place it inside a sack with other such galaxies.