movieId: 4916
title: Midway
year: 1976
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0074899/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jack Smight
actors: Charlton Heston, Henry Fonda, James Coburn, Glenn Ford, Hal Holbrook, Toshirô Mifune, Robert Mitchum, Cliff Robertson, Robert Wagner, Robert Webber

synopsis:
On April 18, 1942, during World War II, a squadron (16 planes) of B-25 bombers (The Doolittle Raid) from the USS Hornet launches a lightning raid on Tokyo. The strike stuns the Imperial Japanese Navy and its commander Admiral Yamamoto (Toshiro Mifune). With hard evidence of the threat posed by the carriers of the American Pacific Fleet to the Japanese home islands, Yamamoto devises a plan to lure out the American fleet and destroy it once and for all by forcing it to sortie against the invasion of Midway Island. At Pearl Harbor, Captain Matt Garth (Charlton Heston) is tasked with gauging the progress of decryption efforts at Station HYPO, headed by Commander Joseph Rochefort (Hal Holbrook), which has partially cracked the Japanese Navy's JN-25 code (they have cracked 10% of the code), indicating that a major operation will soon take place at a location the Japanese refer to as "AF". The US only have 4 carriers and need time to build more. They are concerned that Yamamoto will strike back, due to the Doolittle raid. Rochefort says the Japanese are planning an attack in Coral Sea and give Garth a list of ships they will be using for the attack.
Garth is also asked by his son, naval aviator Ensign Tom Garth (Edward Albert), to help free his girlfriend Haruko Sakura, an American-born daughter of Japanese immigrants, who has been interned with her parents, by calling in favors to have the charges against the family dropped. Yamamoto and his staff present their plans for Midway to the commanders (on his flagship battleship Yamato) who have been chosen to lead the attack - Admirals Nagumo (James Shigeta) and Yamaguchi (John Fujioka) of the Japanese carrier force and Admiral Kondo (Conrad Yama) of the invasion force.
Kondo is not happy with the plan devised by strategist Captain Kameto Kuroshima (Seth Sakai). The plan calls for Nagumo's carrier-based planes to destroy Midway's US defenses, before Kondo can land his invasion forces there. But the land-based carriers of the US at Midway have a range of 400 miles more than the carrier based planes that Nagumo has. The Jap carriers will be destroyed, if they are spotted. Vice Admiral Boshiro Hosogaya (Dale Ishimoto) wants more time to study the plan and suggests postponing the decision till after Coral Sea. Yamamoto is convinced that the only way to defeat US is to strike now when they are weak. After the inconclusive Battle of the Coral Sea (US lost one ship and sunk one Jap light carrier and some smaller ships. Carrier Yorktown was heavily damaged), Rochefort uses a simple ruse to confirm that "AF" is Midway (He gets the Midway unit to transmit a fake message, which he knows will be picked by the Japanese. Once the Japanese transmit over their radio, they identify the location as "AF", thus confirming that its Midway). Now knowing the location and roughly the date of the attack, Admiral Nimitz (Henry Fonda) and his staff prepare a trap of their own. Captain Vinton Maddox (James Coburn) is the US naval strategist who says that the midway plan is a Jap ruse to divert forces from Hawaii. Maddox says that the safe play is to defend Hawai and give up Midway.
Rochefort informs Nimitz that the Japanese have changed the JN-25 code. it will take 2 months to break it. US is now blind. Yamamoto lays out the plan. Hosogaya will attack the Altusian Islands to divert Nimitz's attention away from Midway. 24 hours later, Nagumo will attack Midway and Kondo will move in with his invasion force. Vice Admiral William F. "Bull" Halsey Jr. (Robert Mitchum) would be leading the US fleet, but it would take them 48 hours to get there. By which time, Nagumo would be ready for them.
Unknown to them Halsey was injured at Coral Sea and is hospitalized in Hawaii. Rear Admiral Raymond A. Spruance (Glenn Ford) is the replacements, and the Japanese are unfamiliar with his battle tactics (Ray is a cruiser commander and he got the job only because Halsey was asked to recommend his own replacement).
Yamamoto is aboard the Akagi (Rear Admiral Ryunosuke Kusaka (Pat Morita) is Yamamoto's COS). Lieutenant Joichi Tomonaga (Sab Shimono) is the air commander filling in for Fushida (who led the air raid on Hawaii), as he is in sick bay with a flu.
The carriers USS Enterprise and USS Hornet, augmented by a hastily repaired USS Yorktown that had been damaged at Coral Sea, will sail to a point north of Midway and lie in wait for the Japanese fleet (Raymond plans for a contingency just in case the Japanese are going for Hawaii again). Meanwhile, Matt has been unsuccessful in freeing the Sakuras, infuriating Tom, who ships out on his carrier. The Japanese had sent 2 scout planes to check for the US fleet at Pearl Harbor, but it could not complete the mission as it could not be refueled due to the presence of an enemy ship at the rendezvous point. Yamamoto is advised not to break radio silence to speak with Nagumo and continue as planned. Meanwhile Nagumo is unaware of the failure of the scout planes and since he didn't hear from Yamamoto, he assumes that the US fleet is still at Pearl Harbor.
The battle begins on June 4 as Nagumo's carrier force launches its air attack on Midway Island. Nagumo is not sure of the position of the US fleet and holds back half his planes and the best pilots. Kusaka protests, but Nagumo is adamant. The American base is attacked, but the airstrip remains usable, meaning Midway can still launch aircraft. The Japanese carriers are then spotted by American scouts (The US ships had spotted Kondo's invasion force but had still no clue of Nagumo's carrier strike force. So, Raymond launches a second strike of seaplanes to look for the carrier behind a storm front that was hitting Midway). A massive aerial force is launched from the American carriers. Meanwhile Nagumo is elated that the first strike on Midway is a success and Kusaks convinces him to launch the 2nd strike by arming them with contact bombs instead of having them armed with torpedoes against enemy carriers. Meanwhile, Nagumo is shocked to learn of a sighting by a scout plane of an American carrier, throwing his plans into disarray as he orders that the next strike wave (which was being rearmed with bombs for an attack on Midway) be rapidly re-armed for an attack on the carrier. He has to wait more as the returning planes from the first strike on Midway are near empty on fuel, and Nagumo orders them to be recovered before launching the strike against the US carriers. Raymond has intel on only 2 enemy carriers and knows 2 are still missing. He takes a gamble and launches 114 aircraft against the 2 knows carriers. But due to Enterprise and Yorktown waiting to recover their scouts, only the torpedo planes are launched, and the fighters and bombers are delayed by a few minutes.
Torpedo bombers from Hornet are the first American planes to locate the Japanese fleet. With fuel running low, they attack without fighter protection and are slaughtered by the Japanese Combat Air Patrol. Tom is severely burned when gunfire starts a fire in his cockpit. The Japanese fighters, however, are drawn down to wave-top altitude by the low-flying torpedo planes, leaving them out of position when dive-bombers & fighters from Enterprise and Yorktown arrive. As the Japanese are preparing to launch their second wave, the American bombers attack and reduce three of the Japanese carriers - Akagi, Kaga and Soryu - to burning wrecks within minutes. The remaining Japanese carrier Hiryu immediately launches aircraft. Following the returning American bombers, they soon discover Yorktown and inflict severe damage. The crew manages to bring the fires under control as a scout plane reports that Hiryu has been spotted. Below decks, Matt meets Tom and reconciles with him. Due to a shortage of pilots, Matt joins the counterattack against the Japanese carrier just before its second wave of aircraft strikes. Yorktown is soon burning, and the order is given to abandon ship. But the Japanese think they have sunk a 2nd carrier, not knowing that they just hit the Yorktown once again. Hiryu is sunk, dealing a fatal blow to the invasion. The American planes return to Enterprise and Hornet, but Matt, his plane badly damaged, is killed during landing. Yamamoto receives news of the loss of all his carriers. The admiral orders a general withdrawal as he contemplates how he will apologize for his failure to the Emperor.