movieId: 52
title: Mighty Aphrodite
year: 1995
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0113819/
ratingValue: 
directors: Woody Allen
actors: Pamela Blair, Rene Ceballos, Elie Chaib, George De La Pena, Joanne DiMauro, Denise Faye, Marian Filali, Angelo Fraboni, Scott Fowler

synopsis:
At the ruins of an ancient Greek theatre in Taormina, Sicily, the leader of a Greek chorus (F. Murray Abraham) introduces and narrates the story of Lenny Weinrib (Woody Allen). Lenny is a sportswriter in Manhattan and married to ambitious art curator Amanda Sloan (Helena Bonham Carter). The couple adopts a baby boy and names him Max. As Lenny spends more time with Max, this becomes evident that the child a remarkable gifted. Intrigued, Lenny becomes obsessed with uncovering the identity of Max's biological mother. After a extensive search, Lenny discovers that Max's biological mother is a happy-go-lucky prostitute and part-time porn star whose goes by various names. She reveals her birth name is Leslie Ash (Mira Sorvino) and expresses her preference for being called Linda because this means 'pretty' in Spanish. Lenny arranges to meet Linda at her apartment but doesn't engage in intimate activities. Instead, he encourages her to leave her current lifestyle behind and pursue a more wholesome life. Linda reacts angrily, returning Lenny's money and demanding that he leave. Undeterred, Lenny is determined to befriend Linda and improve her circumstances. He successfully helps Linda escape from her abusive pimp and them tries to match her up with a boxer named Kevin (Michael Rappaport). Initially, they seemed like a well-matched couple but their relationship becomes sour when Kevin discovers Linda's background. It is revealed that Linda is rather a bimbo with a crude sense of humor and delusions of becoming a theater actress. Meanwhile, Lenny and Amanda's marriage begins to falter owing to Lenny's preoccupation with Linda, Amanda's career ambitions and her affair with her colleague Jerry Bender (Peter Weller). Amanda eventually confesses to Lenny that she wants to explore her relationship with Jerry. However, Lenny and Linda find solace into each other following their respective breakups and end up consummating their relationship. The next day though, Lenny reconciles with Amanda, and they realize that they are still deeply in love. Meanwhile, Linda tries to win back Kevin without success. While driving back to Manhattan, she sees a helicopter landing and offers the pilot Don a ride. The Greek chorus reveals that Linda and Don will eventually marry, although Linda is now pregnant with Lenny's child. Some months later, Linda (with her daughter) and Lenny (with Max) meet by chance inside a toy store. Unaware of the connection, Linda expresses her gratitude to Lenny for his help and leaves him stunned. The film ends with the Greek chorus singing and dancing.