movieId: 5445
title: Minority Report
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0181689/
ratingValue: 
directors: Steven Spielberg
actors: Tom Cruise, Max von Sydow, Steve Harris, Neal McDonough, Patrick Kilpatrick, Jessica Capshaw, Richard Coca, Keith Campbell, Kirk B.R. Woller, Klea Scott

synopsis:
In 2054, the federal government plans to nationally implement the Washington, D.C., prototype "Precrime" police program, which has been operating for six years. Three clairvoyant humans ("Precogs") receive psychic impressions of an impending homicide, and officers analyze their visions to determine the location and apprehend the perpetrator before the crime can occur.
Would-be killers are placed in an electrically induced coma and held in a Panopticon-like prison facility.
Their means of doing so is through "PreCogs", three mentally-altered humans who are capable of seeing the future. When the PreCogs sense that a murder is going to be committed, an automated system processes two painted wooden balls: one with the name of the perpetrator(s) engraved into it, and one with the name of the victim(s) engraved into it (the shape and grain of each ball is unique, rendering the system fully tamper-proof). The color of the ball is indicative of what kind of murder is going to happen: a brown ball indicates a premeditated murder, which the PreCogs can predict up to four days before it is committed. A red ball indicates a crime of passion, which, due to the lack of premeditation, cannot be seen until often no less than an hour before it will be committed. Although Precrime has eliminated nearly all premeditated murders during its six-year existence, spontaneous crimes of passion called "red ball" killings still occur, giving the police only a short time to act. Precrime chief John Anderton (Tom Cruise) joined the program after his six-year-old son Sean (Tyler Patrick Jones) was abducted and never found. He suffers from depression and addiction to the drug "Neuroin", and his wife Lara (Kathryn Morris) has left him. The three Precogs are Agatha, Arthur (Michael Dickman) and Dashiell Arkadin (Matthew Dickman). Norbert "Wally" Wallace (Daniel London) is the caretaker of the Precogs.
Once the balls are generated, John must perform a meticulous process called "scrubbing", where they process the images produced from the PreCogs' visions in order to locate telltale clues and thus narrow down the location. Once they are certain of the location, the team flies off in a special aircraft to thwart the crime. They then secure the culprit by "haloing" them (a device placed around his head that renders them fully incapacitated).
Anderton is passionate about Precrime and believes that this technology could have prevented the death of his own son. Department of Justice agent Danny Witwer (Colin Farrell) audits the Precrime operation, intent on uncovering any flaws before a Congressional vote on whether or not to take the system nationwide.
After the suspect has been apprehended, the murder reappears on the displays back at headquarters. Witwer sees these and questions one of the technicians about this and is informed that sometimes after a crime that has been stopped, the PreCogs have these "echo" images pass through their minds, before they are deleted from the system.
Anderton and his colleagues explain to Witwer that the system is designed in a way to be practically foolproof, due to the nature of premeditation and the fact that the PreCogs see what the killer will do, not what they intend to do. Agatha (Samantha Morton), one of the PreCogs, experiences a flashback to a woman's drowning as Anderton watches. Curious, he learns from the prison warden that the intended victim, Anne Lively (Jessica Harper), went missing shortly after her murder was prevented; however, he also discovers that Agatha's vision of the crime is not on file. The assailant who was in Agatha's Previs, though he is classified as a John Doe, due to him having swapped out his eyes for someone else's, to fool the identification sensors.
The only information that the computer has on Anne Lively, is that she was a single mother, who was also a Neuroin addict, but records indicate she went to a rehabilitation clinic to treat her habit. Soon afterward, the PreCogs predict that Anderton will kill a man named Leo Crow (Mike Binder), whom he has never met. Anderton flees, prompting Witwer to begin a manhunt. Anderton visits Dr. Iris Hineman (Lois Smith), a geneticist whose research led to the creation of Precrime, and learns that the PreCogs' abilities are the result of brain damage caused by their parents' addiction to early, impure forms of Neuroin. Hineman explains that one PreCog occasionally sees a different future vision from the others, known as a "minority report". These discrepancies are purged from the official record in order to maintain the PreCogs' reputation of infallibility, but the PreCogs retain their memories. If Anderton does have a minority report, Hineman says, it will most likely have been generated by Agatha since she is the strongest of the three. After undergoing eye transplant surgery with an underground surgeon Dr. Solomon P. Eddie (Peter Stormare), to evade the retinal scanners installed all over the city, Anderton returns to Precrime. Using his removed old eyes, which he kept after the transplant surgery, he enters the Temple where the PreCogs are kept and kidnaps Agatha, shutting down the group-mind on which Precrime depends.
With the assistance of a Cyber-criminal, Anderton searches Agatha's memories but fails to find a minority report for Crow's murder. However, he finds and downloads her memories of Anne's death. The two track Crow to a hotel room and find photos of many children, including Sean; Anderton accuses Crow of killing Sean and nearly kills him, but relents at the last moment.
Crow then claims he was hired to plant the photos and begs Anderton to kill him, saying that his family will only be paid if he dies. When Anderton still refuses, Crow kills himself in a manner similar to the PreCogs' vision of Anderton killing him. Tipped off by Anderton, Witwer investigates Anne's case and finds discrepancies to suggest that she had indeed been murdered. He reports his findings to Lamar Burgess (Max Von Sydow), director of Precrime, who kills him with Anderton's gun. Anderton is arrested and imprisoned for the murders of Crow and Witwer, and Agatha is returned to the other PreCogs.
After Anderton's imprisonment Lara discusses Anderton's concerns about Anne Lively with Burgess. Initially Burgess denies any recollection of Anne Lively but later in the same conversation says he will look into her drowning-a detail Lara had never mentioned. She becomes suspicious and breaks Anderton out of prison, allowing him to confront Burgess at a banquet celebrating the national launch of Precrime. Anne, a Neuroin addict and Agatha's mother, had given up custody of Agatha; some time later, she broke her habit and tried to reclaim her daughter. Burgess hired a man to kill Anne, knowing that Precrime would intervene, then killed her himself in the predicted manner afterward. The Precrime technicians disregarded the second murder vision as an echo of the first one. Once Anderton began to investigate, Burgess arranged for Crow to pose as Sean's abductor in order to provoke Anderton to murder. A "red ball" report comes in, indicating that Burgess will kill Anderton. As the two men face each other down, Anderton points out the dilemma facing Burgess: he can spare Anderton and watch Precrime be discredited and shut down, or validate the program by killing him and going to prison. Burgess asks Anderton's forgiveness before killing himself. Anderton and Lara reconcile, with Lara becoming pregnant with another child. Precrime is abandoned and the prisoners are pardoned and released, though many remain under police surveillance. The PreCogs are moved to an undisclosed location to live in peace.