movieId: 3623
title: Mission: Impossible II
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120755/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Woo
actors: Tom Cruise, Dougray Scott, Thandiwe Newton, Ving Rhames, Richard Roxburgh, John Polson, Brendan Gleeson, Rade Serbedzija, William Mapother, Dominic Purcell

synopsis:
In Sydney, Australia, a Russian scientist named Nekhorvich (Rade Serbedzija) is attempting to create the ultimate cure, "Bellerophon" to his super-virus named "Chimera". Nekhorvich, plans to give "Chimera" to the U.S. Government, in order to expose his employers' criminal plans. Nekhorvich injects the a sample of Chimera into his arm.
With 20 hours before "Chimera" advances to the point "Bellerophon" won't be able to save him, Nekhorvich summons his old friend Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise) to escort him to Atlanta. On the plane "Ethan" kills Nekhorvich before revealing that he is rouge agent Ambrose (Dougray Scott), who skydives out of the plane which crashes into the Rocky Mountains. Ambrose had stolen the Bellerophon from Nekhrovich, which he was carrying in his briefcase.
Wallis (William Mapother) and Ulrich (Dominic Purcell) are Ambrose's henchmen. Ethan is located in the mountains as he was on vacation. Michael, Ethan's boss, informs him that Ambrose and his team have gone rogue. While two of his three-man-team are of his choice, the last must be Nyah Nordoff-Hall (Thandiwe Newton), who was Ambroses ex-girlfriend.
Ethan finds that Nyah is a diamond thief and finds her trying to pick a secure lock for a precious necklace. Ethan tries to warn Nyah that the lock is protected by a fool proof alarm, but she ignores him. They are surrounded by armed guards. Turns out Ethan's cover was of the security engineer for his client, and he says that Nyah is his associate, who were testing the alarms. Ethan makes Nyah return the necklace.
Ethan admits that he triggered the alarm, but wants Nyah to work with him, which she refuses as she feels humiliated.
Later, Ethan chases Nyah in his car and the 2 engage in high-speed car racing on the mountain. Ethan saves her life when car skids and falls over the cliff edge. Nyah has sex with Ethan & agrees to be part of his team. Ethan then meets mission commander Swanbeck (Anthony Hopkins). Swanbeck reveals that Nekhorvich had sent a video message to Ethan, while Ethan was on vacation. Now Nekhorvich is dead. Nekhorvich had traveled with agent Ambrose (who was impersonating Ethan on Swanbeck's orders as Swanbeck could not find Ethan and Nekhorvich asked for him specifically), who has now gone rouge. Ethan's mission is to find this Chimera and recover it.
Swanbeck says that Ambrose was in love with Nyah and she walked away. He has been wanting her back ever since. Swanbeck says that Nyah is their quickest route to Ambrose, whom they cannot locate right now.
Nyah is not happy to learn that she has been recruited because she was Ambrose's ex-girlfriend. Ethan promises to protect Nyah at all costs. He injects Nyah with a Transponder chip, and her location can only be read by Ethan's computer. The chip is completely untraceable. Ethan arranges for Nyah to be arrested & flashes her arrest on all news agencies. Ethan knows that Ambrose will be monitoring the agencies. Ambrose arranges her freedom & gets her to his compound in Sydney.
Ambrose's partner Hugh Stamp (Richard Roxburgh) doesn't believe Nyah's damsel in distress story. Ambrose is livid and cuts off Hugh's finger. Ethan is tracking Nyah with Luther (Ving Rhames) & Aussie helicopter pilot Billy Baird (John Polson). Ethan now knows Ambrose's location but doesn't know if he has Chimera with him and what he plans to do with it.
Ethan knows that Nekhorvich was a specialist in recombining DNA molecules. In the Greek myth, Bellerophon was a prince who killed Chimera. Chimera was a monster with the head of a lion, and the tail of a serpent, who plagued the ancient world. Ethan speculates that Nekhorvich created a monster virus and named it Chimera, and the anti-virus Bellerophon. Ambrose makes a memory card with information on Chimera and wants Hugh to bring it to the racetrack.
Ethan finds that Ambrose is negotiating with John McCloy (Brendan Gleeson), the CEO of Biocyte which employed Nekhorvich. He sees Ambrose showing the contents of the memory card to McCloy on a camera. Ambrose then puts the memory card in his jacket pocket.
At the racetrack, Nyah gets Ethan the memory card that has the effects of Chimera on it, by stealing it from Ambrose. Ethan copies the contents of the memory card. The card confirms that exposure to Chimera is fatal after 20 hours.
Ambrose notices when Nyah places the memory card back into his jacket pocket. McCloy is abducted by the IMF team and, doped up on drugs and set up in a fake hospital room. McCloy believes he is infected with Chimera and is visited by Nekhorvich's ghost. Nekhorvich manipulates McCloy into revealing he ordered Chimera to be developed as a bio-weapon for profitable military applications, and then bought the services of Ambrose and his team to steal the anti-virus back after Nekhorvich's theft and escape.
But now Ambrose has become ambitious and is demanding McCloy pay 37 million Pounds for the anti-virus sample, to which he agreed to. McCloy then passes out due to knockout gas.
Ethan deduces that Ambrose does not have the Chimera sample, and this is why he needs McCloy. Ethan now knows that Ambrose thought that Nekhorvich was carrying both virus and anti-virus samples in his briefcase and was unaware that Nekhorvich had the virus in his bloodstream. At the same time, Nyah is summoned to a meeting with Ethan, who has briefly broken into the compound to give further instructions.
As it turns out, "Nekhorvich's ghost" was the real Ethan gaining details on Ambrose's plans, while the "Ethan" at the compound is Ambrose himself, who now knows of Nyah's allegiances (especially when Nyah tried to come onto him).
Ambrose and Stamp plan for Nyah to be bait for Ethan. Ethan enters Biocyte's lab (on the 42nd floor of the Biocyte building) to destroy that last remaining Chimera samples. Ethan enters the building from the roof of the atrium and infiltrates the lab, where he destroys the incubation chamber and 2 samples in the injection guns. Hunt is attacked by Ambrose before he can eliminate the last sample in the injection gun. Ambrose defeats Ethan by sending Nyah to pick up the last injection gun. Nyah injects the virus into her body, giving her 20 hours to live. Ethan escapes (as he does not have an escape plan for 2), promising again to save her. Ambrose releases Nyah on the streets of Sydney to spread the virus. He himself is located on an Island, along with McCloy. Ethan needs the Bellerophon before he can rescue Nyah.
At the facility Ambrose arm twists McCloy to use the 37-million-pound payments to buy BioCyte stock options that will skyrocket once the virus spreads and the company will have the only known cure. Ambrose plans to gain controlling stake in BioCyte from the billions he will earn from the stock options when the stock goes through the roof. Ethan plays a trick where he infiltrates the compound & captures Stamp & puts his own mask on Stamp & Stamp's mask on himself.
He drags "Stamp" (as Ethan) into the room with Ambrose. As Ambrose tortures "Ethan" & kills him. The real Ethan in Stamp's mask takes the Bellerophon & escapes. Ambrose identifies Stamp inside Ethan's mask by his cut finger.
Ambrose pursues & Ethan kills him. He then finds Nyah in the streets of Sydney to inject her with the antidote & save her life.