movieId: 4886
title: Monsters, Inc.
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0198781/
ratingValue: 
directors: Pete Docter, David Silverman, Lee Unkrich
actors: John Goodman, Billy Crystal, Mary Gibbs, Steve Buscemi, James Coburn, Jennifer Tilly, Bob Peterson, John Ratzenberger, Frank Oz, Daniel Gerson

synopsis:
In a parallel world, the city of Monstropolis is inhabited by monsters and powered by the screams of children in the human world. Monstropolis is not part of the human world, but it can be connected to children's bedrooms through their closet doors. At the Monsters Inc. factory, employees called "Scarers" venture into children's bedrooms to scare them and collect their screams in specially designed canisters, using closet doors as portals.
The factory has a huge warehouse containing thousands of doors, work areas called "scare floors" where the doors are activated and the energy from the screams of human children are contained in energy containers, and a simulator room in which employees practice their scare skills in a simulator. When a door is properly activated, it becomes a portal between the monster world and the human world. The city's power supply is provided by Monsters, Inc., a utility company that employs monsters to scare children and extract energy from their screams. This is considered a dangerous task since the monsters believe children to be toxic and touching them would be fatal. However, production is falling as children are becoming harder to scare and the company chairman Henry J. Waternoose III (James Coburn) is determined to find a solution. The top Scarer is James P. "Sulley" Sullivan (John Goodman) a huge, intimidating but well-meaning scarier at Monsters, Inc, who lives with his assistant Mike Wazowski (Billy Crystal) a short, one-eyed scarier assistant who is Sulley's best friend, roommate, and coworker.
Sulley has a rivalry with the ever-determined chameleon-like monster Randall Boggs (Steve Buscemi) a snide and preening monster with a chameleon-like ability to change his skin color and blend in completely with his surroundings. During an ordinary day's work on the "Scarefloor", another Scarer accidentally brings a child's sock into the factory, causing the Children Detection Agency (CDA) to arrive and cleanse him. Mike is constantly harassed by Roz (Bob Peterson), an aging slug-like clerk, for not completing his paperwork on time. While working late at the factory, Sulley discovers a door has been left on the Scarefloor, still activated in the station of his rival, Randall Boggs. While investigating, he discovers a young girl (Mary Gibbs) has entered the factory and is forced to hide her away in a bag.
Far from being scared, she calls him "Kitty" and delights in playing with him. Since monsters believe humans are lethally toxic, Sully tries repeatedly to return the girl to her room, but she keeps following him back, and Randall eventually deactivates and stores the door, leaving the girl stuck in the monster world. Mike is at a restaurant on a date when Sulley comes to him for help, but chaos erupts when the girl escapes from the bag and enters the restaurant. Sulley and Mike escape the CDA and take the girl back to their home, discovering that she is not toxic after all. Forced to keep the girl hidden in their apartment for the night, Sulley realizes that she is not toxic, and her laughter can generate more energy than screams as her laughter blows out all the lights in Sulley's apartments with the excessive energy outburst.
Sulley quickly grows attached to the girl, nicknaming her "Boo". Sulley and Mike disguise the girl as a monster and attempt to send her home. The next day they smuggle her into the factory and Mike attempts to return her through her door. Randall agrees to help them return her to her bedroom, but when Mike enters the room, Randall captures him in a box, believing he is Boo. Sulley and Boo follow Randall into the depths of the building, discovering he has built a "Scream Extractor" to remove a child's screams by force, making the company's current tactics redundant. Sulley rescues Mike and they flee, going to Waternoose for help. However, Waternoose is revealed to be in allegiance with Randall and Sulley and Mike are exiled to the Himalayas. The two are taken in by the Abominable Snowman named Yeti (John Ratzenberger) who tells Sulley he can return to the factory through a nearby village. Sulley heads out, but Mike refuses to follow out of frustration. Returning to the factory, Sulley rescues Boo from the Scream Extractor and reunites with Mike, and they reconcile soon after. Randall pursues them as they race through the factory and ride on a door that is being returned to storage, taking them into a giant vault where millions of closet doors are stored. Boo's laughter activates the doors and allows the chase to pass in and out of the human world. After Randall nearly kills Sulley by pushing him out of an open door, they exile Randall by throwing him through the door to a trailer park, where a woman beats Randall with a shovel, and Mike destroys the door to make sure Randall never comes back. They are finally able to access Boo's door, but Waternoose and the CDA send it back to the Scarefloor. Mike distracts the CDA, while Sulley escapes with Boo and her door while Waternoose follows.
Sully had not properly activated Boo's door, causing the three to actually wind up in the adjacent Monsters, Inc. training room, which is equipped with a video monitoring system. There, Sulley tricks Waternoose into revealing his conspiracy with Randall to kidnap thousands of children. Mike records the conversation, exposing Waternoose to the CDA, who arrest him. The CDA's leader is revealed to be Roz, who has been undercover for years trying to prove there was a scandal at Monsters Inc. Boo is returned home, and on Roz's orders the door must be destroyed. Sulley and Mike say their last goodbyes, then the door is put through a shredder. Sully keeps one of the wood splinters as a memento. Sulley becomes the new chairman of Monsters Inc., and thanks to his experience with Boo, he comes up with a plan to end the company's energy crisis. Months later, Sulley's leadership has changed the company's workload. The monsters now enter children's bedrooms to entertain them, since laughter is ten times more powerful than screams. With the energy crisis solved, the factory is now focused on making children laugh to collect energy. Mike becomes the company's top comedian. Mike takes Sulley aside, revealing he has almost rebuilt Boo's door, while requiring one more piece which Sulley took as a memento. Sulley enters and reunites with Boo.