movieId: 5135
title: Monsoon Wedding
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0265343/
ratingValue: 
directors: Mira Nair
actors: Naseeruddin Shah, Lillete Dubey, Shefali Shah, Vijay Raaz, Tillotama Shome, Vasundhara Das, Parvin Dabas, Kulbhushan Kharbanda, Kamini Khanna, Rajat Kapoor

synopsis:
The film's central story deals with the organization of an enormous, chaotic, and expensive wedding that is due to take place in a modern Indian family. Lalit Verma (Naseeruddin Shah) and his wife Pimmi (Lillete Dubey) (who secretly smokes) have arranged a marriage for their daughter Aditi (Vasundhara Das) to Hemant Rai (Parvin Dabas) (son of Mohan Rai (Roshan Seth) & Saroj Rai (Soni Razdan)). Hemant is the son of a family friend who lives in Texas, and Aditi has only known him for a few weeks. As so often happens in Indian culture, such a wedding means that, for one of the few times in each generation, the extended family comes together from all corners of the globe, bringing its emotional baggage along. Lalit and Pimmi are helped with the main planning by Pimmi's sister Shashi (Kamini Khanna) and her husband C.L (Kulbhushan Kharbanda), who have arrived earlier from Oman. A few days before the engagement, Tej Puri (Rajat Kapoor), Lalit's extremely wealthy brother-in-law, arrives from the U.S.. Tej is married to Lalit's sister and has helped the Verma family regain their financial footing after the Partition of India left them penniless many years ago. Tej offers to pay for Aditi's cousin, Ria Verma (Shefali Shah) to attend university in the U.S., after the family consults him for advice. Ria and her mother live with the Verma family, who took them in after the death of Ria's father. Despite his generous offer, Ria stays away from Tej and is not comfortable in his presence. Ria knows that Aditi had an affair at her office and advises her not to get married in haste to man that she barely knows. Ria is elder to Aditi and is under a lot of pressure from all the relatives to get married. Ayesha (Neha Dubey) is Aditi's cousin, who is attending the wedding and is attracted to Rahul, Sashi and CL's son from Australia. In a wedding house, there is no privacy, but they still manage to steal a kiss at night. Lalit is stressed about the wedding preps and the money being spent. Plus, PK demands another Rs 2 Lakhs for water-proofing the tent. Lalit begins experiencing difficulty in paying for the final, smaller aspects of the wedding and is embarrassed when he has to borrow money from friends and colleagues. Meanwhile, Parabatlal Kanhaiyalal 'P.K.' Dubey (Vijay Raaz), the eccentric wedding planner, falls in love with Alice (Tillotama Shome), the Vermas' maid.
Ria grows concerned after she witnesses what appears to be Tej grooming a younger relative (Daughter of Sashi and CL), ten-year-old Aliya. Aditi's younger brother Varun (Ishan Nair) (who wants to become a chef) plans an elaborate dance for the Pre-wedding party with another cousin, Ayesha (Neha Dubey), but Lalit worries that his son is becoming too effeminate and plans to send him to Boarding school. Dubey's workers see Alice trying on Aditi's wedding jewelry, and the men accuse her of stealing. The incident causes her to become withdrawn from Dubey and he grows depressed. Dubey's staff notices this and feel sorry for him and their own behavior. A few days before the wedding, Aditi sleeps with an old lover (in the back seat of his car, in the middle of the night), her married boss Vikram (who is a media presenter); and confesses this to Hemant. The incident only serves as a reminder to Aditi as to why she stopped seeing Vikram (The police interrupt their love making session, but Vikram leaves Aditi to deal with the lusty cops while he goes to attend a call from his wife. Aditi drives away in Vikram's car). Though he is initially angry, Hemant is glad for her honesty and is confident that they can put it behind them and be happy together. The workers apologize to Alice, and she reconciles with Dubey. The night before the ceremony, Varun refuses to dance due to the comments made by his father (and his determination to send Varun to boarding school), and Ayesha performs with the help of Rahul (Randeep Hooda), Pimmi's nephew who lives in Australia. Aditi and Hemant grow closer, and they share a few intimate moments, which re-affirms their faith in the marriage.
PK Dubey proposes to Alice, and she accepts. After a night of jokes, drama and dances, Ria catches Tej trying to take Aliya for a drive alone (after Aliya talks to Ria about how she knows how older people kiss). Ria stops them from driving off and takes Aliya away from him, revealing to Lalit and others that Tej had molested her as a child. Lalit's sister does not believe her, attributing her accusations to her character and unmarried status. Emotionally distraught, Ria leaves. The next day, Lalit pleads with Ria to return to the wedding, admitting that he can't possibly imagine what she has gone through but also saying that he can't disown Tej, since they are family. Ria is not happy but agrees to return for the sake of Aditi. Hours before the wedding, however, Lalit changes his mind and tells his sister and Tej to leave the wedding and the family home. Tej's wife insists that Ria's accusation was a small matter, but Lalit stands his ground.
The Monsoon rains begin as Aditi and Hemant are married in an elaborate wedding, while Dubey and Alice simultaneously wed in a simple ceremony, and later celebrate with the Vermas. Ria moves on from her past life and is finally able to freely enjoy the festivities.