movieId: 1569
title: My Best Friend's Wedding
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119738/
ratingValue: 
directors: P.J. Hogan
actors: Julia Roberts, Dermot Mulroney, Cameron Diaz, Rupert Everett, Philip Bosco, M. Emmet Walsh, Rachel Griffiths, Carrie Preston, Susan Sullivan, Christopher Masterson

synopsis:
New York City food critic Julianne "Jules" Potter can make or break a restaurant with a single review. When she arrives at any place, she gets the VIP treatment. Her editor George accompanies her on all assignments. Chefs and restaurant managers hang on her every word and every facial expression to find out how she is going to write them up the next day. Three weeks before her 28th birthday, Jules (Julia Roberts) receives a call from her lifelong friend Michael O'Neal (Dermot Mulroney), a Chicago sportswriter. Years earlier, they studied together at Brown University and had an affair. They split up as Jules got restless, but the two agreed that if they were both unmarried by age 28, they would marry each other. Michael was the best friend she ever had, and they had been together through everything including losing jobs, parents, lovers, and even traveled all over the world and shared the best times of their lives with each other.
Jules believes that Michael is calling to cash in on their marriage agreement. Jules calls Michael at Drake Hotel in Chicago and he says that he had been calling her for a month, and Jules had been out on a book tour. Michael tells her that in four days, he will marry Kimmy Wallace (Cameron Diaz), a college student eight years his junior whose father owns the Chicago White Sox.
It's a four-day traditional wedding with all the events. Michael asks Jules to fly in the very next day. Realizing that Michael is the love of her life, Jules resolves to sabotage his wedding. Jules argues to George that Michael adored her for 9 years and she is not going to give up on him that easily. The family includes Isabelle Wallace (Susan Sullivan) is the wife of Walter (Philip Bosco), mother of Kimmy, and future mother-in-law of Michael. Joe O'Neal (M. Emmet Walsh) is father of Michael and Scotty O'Neal and future father-in-law of Kimmy. Samantha Newhouse (Rachel Griffiths) & Mandy Newhouse (Carrie Preston), twin sisters & Kimmy's bridesmaids. Scotty O'Neal (Christopher Masterson), youngest son of Joe and younger brother of Michael and future brother-in-law of Kimmy Arriving in Chicago, she reunites with Michael and meets Kimmy, who asks her to be the maid of honor. Kim says that her best friend had an accident and cannot attend the wedding. Samantha and Mandy are her bridesmaids whom she calls debutante sisters and vengeful people who sleep around.
Kim knows everything about Jules like she hates weddings, she wants to be distinctive, she is not conventional and against anything considered to be a female priority such as marriage, romance or even love. Kim trusts Jules completely and considers her an elder sister. Jules schemes to break up the couple. She turns on her seductive side, trying to lure Michael. Jules's attempt to humiliate Kimmy at a karaoke bar backfire. Kimmy had told her she can't carry a tune, and she forces Kimmy on the stage hoping to embarrass her in front of Michael. Instead, Kimmy rocks a song and wins over everybody with her bubbly nature. She manipulates Kimmy into asking her father to offer Michael a job, which Jules knows will anger Michael, but this fails as well. Michael gets upset when Kimmy asks him, and he gets up to leave. But then Kimmy starts crying and apologizes to Michael and he melts and forgives her. Frustrated, Jules begs her friend George Downes (Rupert Everett) for help, and he flies to Chicago. On George's advice, Jules prepares to tell Michael how much she loves him but instead tells him that she is engaged to George, hoping to make Michael jealous. George, who is gay, plays along but embarrasses Jules at lunch by telling a fake, but incredibly romantic story about how they first met, with the wedding party, singing "I Say a Little Prayer" as the whole restaurant joins in. George flies' home, and Jules tells Michael that her "relationship" with George is over. Michael admits to feeling jealous and gives her the chance to confess her own feelings, but she lets the moment pass. They share a dance as Michael sings their song, "The Way You Look Tonight". The day before the wedding, at Kimmy's father's Walter (Philip Bosco) office, Jules uses his email account to forge a message from him to Michael's boss, asking that Michael be fired to allow Kimmy's father to hire him at Kimmy's insistence. She saves the message rather than send it but later realizes that Kimmy's father has unknowingly sent the email. Jules lies to enlist Michael's help, but they find the office locked. Returning to Jules' hotel, Michael receives a message from his boss notifying him of the email. Furious, he calls Kimmy, calling off the wedding. The next morning, Jules discovers that neither Michael nor Kimmy have told anyone else that the wedding is off. She tries to manipulate the couple into breaking up for good, but Michael and Kimmy decide to get married after all. Jules finally confesses her love to Michael and passionately kisses him. Kimmy witnesses this and drives away, pursued by Michael, who is followed by Jules in a caterer's truck. Jules calls George, who assures her that Michael loves Kimmy. Finding Michael at Chicago Union Station, Jules confesses to everything. He forgives her and tells her that here at the station is where he proposed to Kimmy and she accepted, and they split up to look for Kimmy. Jules finds Kimmy in the bathroom of Comiskey Park. Amid a crowd of onlookers, Kimmy confronts Jules for interfering with Michael. Jules apologizes, assuring Kimmy that Michael truly loves her, and they reconcile. The wedding proceeds, and at the reception, Jules gives a heartfelt speech as Kimmy's maid of honor.
Jules allows the newlyweds to temporarily have "The Way You Look Tonight" as their song until they find their own song. Jules and Michael share their goodbyes, both finally moving on. On the phone with George, Jules is surprised to see him at the reception, and they dance together.