movieId: 8376
title: Napoleon Dynamite
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0374900/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jared Hess
actors: Jon Heder, Jon Gries, Aaron Ruell, Efren Ramirez, Diedrich Bader, Tina Majorino, Sandy Martin, Haylie Duff, Trevor Snarr, Shondrella Avery

synopsis:
Napoleon Dynamite (Jon Heder) is a socially awkward high school student from Preston, Idaho who lives with his older brother Kipland Ronald "Kip" Dynamite (Aaron Ruell), their grandmother Carlinda Dynamite (Sandy Martin), and their pet llama, Tina. Napoleon's school days are spent doodling mythical creatures, dealing with bullies and playing tether-ball by himself. Napoleon is beaten up by bullies at school very often and he calls home for Kip or his grandmother to come and get him, but Kip refuses. Kip, 32, is unemployed and boasts of spending hours in Internet chat rooms with "babes" and training to be a cage fighter. Their grandmother leads a secret life involving mysterious boyfriends and quad-biking in the desert. Napoleon daydreams his way through school, doodling Ligers and fantasy creatures, and reluctantly deals with the various bullies who torment him. Napoleon frequently makes up fantastic stories about himself and assumes a sullen and aloof attitude. Napoleon and Kip attend a martial arts class taught by Rex. Rex has an 8-week course in which he teaches the basics of self-defense. But the program costs $300 each and Napoleon and Kip do not have that kind of money. Napoleon's grandmother breaks her coccyx in a quad-bike accident and asks their Uncle Rico (Jon Gries) to look after the boys while she recovers. Flirtatious, middle-aged Rico arrives in the camper van he lives in. Rico, a former athlete who lives in a 1975 Dodge Tradesman camper-van, uses the opportunity to team up with Kip in a get-rich-quick scheme to sell numerous items door-to-door. Kip wants money to visit his Internet girlfriend LaFawnduh (Shondrella Avery) in Detroit or for her to come visit him. Former high-school athlete Rico dwells on his past and dreams of going back in time. He believes wealth will help him get over his breakup with his girlfriend and failed dreams of NFL stardom. Napoleon becomes friends with two students at his school Deborah "Deb" Bradshaw (Tina Majorino), a shy girl who sells head-shots of famous celebrities and Knick-Knacks to raise money for college and Pedro (Efren Ramirez), a transfer student from Ciudad Juárez.
Deb had come to Napoleon's home to sell stuff, and when he makes fun of her, she leaves her materials with Napoleon and runs away. Napoleon approaches Deb at lunch and offers to return her sales kit to her, which he had brought with him to school and kept in his locker. Nepoleon buys a key-chain from Deb. A friendship soon develops between the three outcasts. Deb takes interest in Napoleon's drawings.
Pedro has a cool bike called the Sledgehammer and Napoleon uses that to perform aerial stunts, most of which go wrong, and Napoleon ends up hurting himself. The guys know that the school dance is coming up and Pedro plans to ask the school's popular girl Summer. Napoleon tries to explain to Pedro that she is out of their league, but Pedro is unfamiliar with the concept as he is from Mexico. Pedro knows that his chances are low, and he decides to bake a cake for Summer as tip the odds in his favor. Pedro puts the cake outside Summer's home with a note and runs away. Summer approaches Pedro at school but cannot find him and gives a note to Napoleon instead. Pedro is rebuffed when he asks the popular and snobby Summer Wheatly to accompany him to the high school dance. Deb gladly accepts. Napoleon is afraid to get a date for himself as he believes that girls like boys with skills like Nun-chucks or computer hacking and he doesn't have any skills. Pedro tells Napoleon that he makes cool drawings and asks him to build on that.
Pedro encourages Napoleon to find a date and he picks popular classmate Trisha (Emily Kennard). As a gift, he draws an (unintentionally bad) picture of her and delivers it to Trisha's mother, one of Rico's customers. Rico tells Trisha's mother embarrassing stories about Napoleon to evoke sympathy. She buys his wares and forces Trisha to accept Napoleon's invitation. Trisha goes to the dance with Napoleon but abandons him to hang out with Summer. Pedro allows Napoleon to dance with Deb. Inspired by a poster at the school dance, Pedro decides to run for class president, pitting him against Summer Wheatley (Haylie Duff), a popular yet snobby girl at the school. The two factions put up fliers and hand out trinkets to attract voters. To demonstrate their "skills" and increase their respect around the school, Napoleon and Pedro enter a Future Farmers of America competition, grading milk and cow udders. They win medals, but it does little for their popularity. Rico and Kip's scheme causes friction with Napoleon when Rico begins spreading embarrassing rumors about Napoleon, to evoke sympathy from his prospective customers. Tensions finally come to a head after Rico tries to sell Deb a breast-enhancement product, claiming it was Napoleon's suggestion, which causes her to break off their friendship. Rico's sales scheme ends when martial arts instructor Rex (Diedrich Bader) walks in on Rico demonstrating the breast-enhancement product on his wife, and assaults him. Kip, meanwhile, is head-over-heels in love, because LaFawnduh came to visit him from Detroit. She gives Kip an urban makeover, outfitting him in hip hop regalia, and they leave together on a bus for Michigan. On the day of the class president elections, Pedro gives an unimpressive speech before the student body. After the principal unexpectedly informed them that Pedro needed to have a skit to accompany his speech, Napoleon gives the sound engineer a music tape he received from LaFawnduh, and performs an elaborate dance routine to "Canned Heat" by Jamiroquai. The routine receives a standing ovation from everyone except for Summer and her boyfriend. The film concludes with Pedro becoming the class president, Rico reuniting with his estranged girlfriend, Grandma returning from the hospital, and Napoleon and Deb making up and playing tether-ball.
Kip and LaFawnduh are married in an outdoor ceremony in Preston. Napoleon, absent for the vows, arrives riding a horse, claiming that it is a "wild honeymoon stallion" that he has tamed himself. After Deb photographs Napoleon on the horse, Kip and LaFawnduh ride into the sunset.