movieId: 2939
title: Niagara
year: 1953
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0046126/
ratingValue: 
directors: Henry Hathaway
actors: Marilyn Monroe, Joseph Cotten, Jean Peters, Max Showalter, Denis O'Dea, Richard Allan, Don Wilson, Lurene Tuttle, Russell Collins, Will Wright

synopsis:
Ray (Casey Adams) and Polly Cutler (Jean Peters) are on a delayed honeymoon at Niagara Falls, find their reserved cabin (At the Rainbow Cabins on the Canadian side of the border) occupied by George (Joseph Cotten) and Rose Loomis (Marilyn Monroe). Rose claims that George has not been well and begs Polly & manager Mr. Qua (Russell Collins) to let them stay. They politely accept another, less desirable cabin, and the two couples become acquainted.
Ray is on a company trip, as he won the prize for the most imaginative sales campaign at the shredded wheat crisps company he works for. George is at the Toledo plant, and the company has a factory in Niagara, headed by Mr. Kettering (Don Wilson). Ray wants to meet Mr. Kettering but he is not in town. George and Rose have a troubled marriage. She is younger and very attractive. He is jealous, depressed, and irritable. It is implied that he may have recently been discharged from an Army mental hospital. Rose hardly spends any time with George, and they keep to themselves most of the time.
While touring the falls the following day, Polly sees Rose passionately kissing a man, Patrick (Richard Allan). Before going to the viewing area, people are required to deposit their regular shoes and wear galoshes instead.
Back at the cabins, George finds a Niagara tourist tunnels ticket in Rose's coat and knows that she went there without him.
That evening the Cutlers witness George's rage. Rose joins an impromptu party and George storms out and breaks a record playing a tune that he suspects has a secret meaning for Rose.
Seeing that George has cut his hand with the record, Polly visits his room to apply Mercurochrome and bandages. George confides that he was a sheep rancher whose luck turned for the worse after he married Rose, whom he met when she was a barmaid. After marrying Rose, George hardly spent any time on the ranch and as a result the sheep started dying. What George does not know is that Rose is planning his murder. Rose calls Patrick and tells him to prepare for the next day, as George has just thrown a huge tantrum in front of everyone and nobody will be surprised to see him dead, as they would believe that he committed suicide.
The next day she lures him into following her to the dark tourist tunnel underneath the Falls, by telling him that she going to buy bus tickets for Chicago, knowing fully well that George would follow her.
There Patrick has planned to kill him. Patrick is to request a nearby Carillon to play a special song to let Rose know that George is dead. By chance, the tune is played, and Rose concludes George is murdered.
Rose reports George's disappearance to the police, and Inspector Starkey (Denis O'Dea) comes by to investigate. In a twist, George has killed Patrick, thrown his body into the falls and collected Patrick's shoes at the exit instead of his own. This leads the police to believe that George is the victim. The body is retrieved, and the police bring Rose to identify George's body. When the cover is lifted from the face and she sees Patrick, she collapses and is admitted to a hospital.
Mr Kettering comes to the cabins to meet Ray. The motel manager moves the Cutlers to the Loomises' cabin. George comes to kill Rose in revenge but finds Polly instead. She wakes and sees him before he runs away. She tells the police that George is alive, who launch a dragnet. During the Cutlers' second visit to the Falls, George finds Polly alone. Trying to escape, she slips and he saves her from falling into the Falls. He explains that he killed Patrick in self-defense and asks, "Let me stay dead." Polly leaves without answering.
Later that day, she tells the police detective that she believes George is alive. George has the Carillon play "Kiss" again to panic Rose. A frightened Rose leaves the hospital intending to return to the U.S.
Finding George waiting for her, she tries to hide in the Carillon bell tower. George catches her and strangles her beneath the bells, which remain silent. Remorsefully he says, "I loved you, Rose. You know that." The Cutlers go fishing with friends in a launch on a section of the Niagara River above the Falls. When the launch is moored to allow the party to go shopping, George steals the boat with Polly on board. The police are notified and set out in pursuit. The boat runs out of gas and drifts toward the Falls. Near the edge, George manages to place Polly on a rock before going over the Falls to his death. A camera shot reveals Rose's body clad in a red dress at the bottom of the Falls. Polly is rescued by helicopter.