movieId: 5319
title: Nine Queens
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0247586/
ratingValue: 
directors: Fabián Bielinsky
actors: Gastón Pauls, Ricardo Darín, Graciela Tenenbaum, María Mercedes Villagra, Gabo Correa, Pochi Ducasse, Luis Armesto, Ernesto Arias, Amancay Espíndola

synopsis:
The film opens at a convenience store early in the morning. Juan (Gastón Pauls), a con artist, successfully scams the cashier, but later messes up by attempting the same scam again on the next shift.
The scam is simple, he buys 5 euros worth of stuff and pays with a 50-euro bill but puts it back in his jacket when the cashier says that she does not have change. Then the cashier finds the change and puts 45 euros on the counter. Juan adds 5 euros to it, and then adds a further 50 euros to it, and asks the cashier for a 100-euro bill. But in the next instance, the first cashier comes back and calls Juan out on conducting a scam. Marcos (Ricardo Darín), who has been observing the whole time, steps in pretending to be a police officer and takes Juan away. As soon as they are far enough from the shop, Marcos tells Juan he is not actually a cop but a fellow con man. Marcos requests Juan be his partner for the day, saying his has recently disappeared. Juan is skeptical as he knows that men like Marcos give nothing away for free. As Marcos starts to walk away, Juan agrees to be his partner for one day. Juan asks Marcos to show him the ropes, because his father, also a con man, is in jail and he needs to raise money quickly to bribe a judge to reduce his father's sentence from 10 years to 6 months. He needs $70,000. Marcos is sympathetic with Juan but cannot help him raise this much money so soon. Marcos & Juan roam the city the whole day performing cheap tricks to swindle small sums of money. All the while Juan earns Marcos's trust and respect. Then a rare scheme seemingly falls into their laps: Sandler ( Oscar Nunez), a former business associate of Marcos, needs his help to sell "The Nine Queens" a counterfeit sheet of rare stamps, to Vidal Gandolfo, a wealthy Spanish collector staying at the hotel where Marcos' sister, Valeria, works. Vidal will be deported from Argentina the following day due to corruption charges. Sandler contacted Marcos by sending a message through Marcos's sister Valeria (Leticia Bredice). Valeria & Marcos are on barely talking terms & Valeria makes it very clear that the only reason she called Marcos was that Sandler was creating a scene at the hotel where she worked. Seems Marcos has cheated Valeria & his younger brother out of their fair share of their grandfather's inheritance. But the younger brother Federico (Tomas Fonzi) does not believe Valeria & maintains that Marcos is blameless & could not have done anything to cheat Valeria and himself. Valeria has sued Marcos & the case is currently in court. Sandler informs Marcos that he copied the nine sisters from the original, which are held by his widow sister, who was left the collection by the dead brother-in-law. She wouldn't sell the stamps, but Sandler was able to make a copy. The potential mark is Esteban Vidal Gandolfo (Ignasi Abadal), a rich Spaniard who is facing deportation and desperate to smuggle his wealth out of the country. Sandler is again the person who informs Marcos about the buyer. Sandler says that he selected Marcos because he fell ill after coming to the hotel (looking for Gandolfo) & saw Valeria & thought of Marcos. Marcos asks for a 90% cut in exchange for making this sale for Sandler. Juan desperately pleads Marcos for a cut, making Marcos believe that this is a sure bet, he is fully in. Marcos has Sandler by everything. Gandolfo has no time to fully check if the stamps are authentic, but he hires an expert to do a quick check and is satisfied. He offers $450,000 for the stamps, the exchange to take place that evening. Marcos had expected $30,000 for the stamps as he had no idea of their real value, so this is a massive jackpot for him & he has grandeur of retiring comfortably on the back of this deal. In the intervening time, a number of things go wrong. The stamp expert demands a cut, as he knew the stamps were in fact forged. The fake stamps are then stolen out of Juan and Marcos' hands by crooks on motorcycles who, unaware of their value, destroy them by tossing them into a river. To salvage the scheme, Marcos approaches Sandler's widowed sister, the owner of the real stamps, who agrees to sell them for $250,000. Marcos can put up $200,000 and asks Juan to contribute the remaining $50,000. Juan suspects that he is being scammed, as it's a remarkable coincidence that Marcos needs just the amount that Juan has saved up. But as the $50,000 is not enough to help his father, he reluctantly agrees. They buy the real stamps and go to Gandolfo's hotel, but he says he has changed his mind and will now only buy the stamps if he also gets to sleep with Marcos' sister Valeria, a hotel employee. Valeria's price is that Marcos must confess to their younger brother how he cheated him out of an inheritance. After he does so, Valeria spends the night with Vidal. The next morning, Valeria informs them that Vidal paid for the stamps with a certified check. On their way to the bank, an attempted mugging is revealed to be an attempted con by Marcos to cheat Juan out of his share. Juan reveals he hid the check and will hand it to Marcos as they reach the bank. Upon arrival, they see a crowd outside and learn the bank has failed due to fraud by the management, making the check worthless. Juan, looking disillusioned, walks away, while Marcos sticks around to see if he can find a way to still get the money. Juan arrives at a warehouse, where he greets the motorcycle thieves, Vidal, Sandler, Berta, and Valeria, who is Juan's girlfriend, revealing that the real con was to swindle Marcos out of $200,000, as revenge for all the times he cheated his family and his partners.