movieId: 3505
title: No Way Out
year: 1987
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0093640/
ratingValue: 
directors: Roger Donaldson
actors: Kevin Costner, Gene Hackman, Sean Young, Will Patton, Howard Duff, George Dzundza, Jason Bernard, Iman, Fred Thompson, Leon Russom

synopsis:
In a house near the Pentagon, Lieutenant Commander Tom Farrell of the Office of Naval Intelligence is under interrogation, asked how he came to meet Secretary of Defense David Brice. Six months earlier, Farrell is invited to an inaugural ball by his college friend Scott Pritchard.
At a ball, U.S. Navy Lieutenant Commander Tom Farrell (Kevin Costner) meets a young woman, Susan Atwell (Sean Young), and the two immediately begin an affair just before he ships out for the Philippines, although Atwell is involved with someone else.
Atwell takes Farrell to her friend Nina's home where they have rigorous sex. Nina lived in the same building as Atwell and knew that Atwell did not go to her own apartment as her other lover would become insanely jealous and unpleasant. The very next day, Farrell takes a flight out of the US to his next assignment in the Philippines. During his next Naval deployment, Farrell rescues a fellow sailor during a storm and becomes a hero. The sailor was on forward watch and was swept away by the powerful waves. He was hanging by the side of the ship from a safety line attached to his waist. Farrell went in himself rather than wait for a rescue team to save the sailor's life. He is brought back to Washington to work at The Pentagon for Secretary of Defense David Brice (Gene Hackman) on the recommendation of his General Counsel Scott Pritchard (Will Patton), an old friend of Farrell's.
Returning to Washington, D.C., for his new post, Farrell reunites with his old landlord, and his friend Sam Hesselman, who works in the Pentagon's new computer center. Brice, determined to cancel a boondoggle Navy project that has powerful political backing, decides that Farrell should act as his direct liaison to the CIA to gather information about whether the Soviets really are working on a similar project. Atwell and Farrell's affair continues, even after she reveals she is also Brice's mistress. Just as Tom and Susan return from a romantic weekend, Brice visits unexpectedly, forcing Farrell to slip away.
Soon after, Farrell finds out that the other man in Susan's life is Secretary Brice, who in turn learns of Susan's infidelity. While demanding the name of her new lover, Brice slaps Susan in a jealous rage, knocking her off an indoor balcony to her death. Ready to turn himself in, Brice is persuaded by Pritchard to cover up everything and blame it on someone else. Pritchard removes all evidence of Brice from Atwell's apartment and discovers an indiscernible negative of a Polaroid photograph she took of Farrell. Pritchard suggests that Atwell's other lover could be conflated with a long-rumored KGB sleeper agent code-named "Yuri", who could be implicated in her death and killed by Pritchard's operatives, clearing Brice from suspicion. Army CID Officers search Atwell's apartment, and Pritchard plants the photo negative among the evidence, which Hesselman attempts to have enhanced by computer, a process that may take days. Confident that "Yuri" doesn't exist, CIA director Marshall (Fred Dalton Thompson) dismisses the possibility of Pritchard having an affair with Susan, saying that Pritchard is homosexual. Brice appoints Farrell to lead the investigation to find Susan's other lover, placing him in the position of attempting to find evidence that could implicate himself.
Realizing that Brice killed Atwell and Pritchard is covering up the evidence, Farrell assists the bogus investigation, aware that the physical evidence makes himself the prime suspect. The only forensic evidence in the case is a discarded Polaroid negative recovered from Susan's house, which requires lengthy computer processing to become visible, and semen found in Susan's vagina, though mentioned, it is not pursued, as PCR analysis of DNA was not yet in common use. Farrell pleads with systems analyst and old friend Sam Hesselman (George Dzundza) to slow down the processing and tells him about Susan and Brice. Meanwhile, Farrell sets about proving Brice was involved with Susan. Searching for real evidence to implicate Brice, Farrell investigates a jewel box from Morocco that Brice gave Atwell, as foreign gifts must be registered with the State Department, Farrell has Hesselman "raid" the computerized registry. Farrell and Pritchard question Atwell's friend Nina, who pretends not to recognize Farrell but reveals that she knew Atwell was seeing Brice.
Pritchard harasses Nina Beka (Iman), a close friend of Susan's, by threatening deportation back to South Africa, then sends covert assassins to kill her, but Farrell rescues her just in time. Credit card statements lead the CID to two witnesses who can identify Atwell's mystery lover. One of them spots Farrell at a distance, confirming to the investigators that Yuri is inside the Pentagon, and a room-by-room search begins. Farrell informs Hesselman of Brice's guilt and the incriminating gift and eludes the search by climbing into a ceiling vent. Concerned, Hesselman tells Pritchard of Farrell's suspicions and his relationship with Atwell, and Pritchard shoots him dead. Pursued by Pritchard's assassins, Farrell reaches Brice's office and confronts him with a printout of the gift registry. Pritchard prepares to implicate Farrell as Yuri for Atwell's and Hesselman's deaths, but Brice improvises a different story to buy Farrell's silence: that Pritchard, who is infatuated with Brice, killed Atwell out of jealousy. Devastated and betrayed, Pritchard shoots himself, and Brice tells the investigators that Pritchard is Yuri, concluding the search. Farrell sends the printout to the Director of the CIA, Brice's political rival, and leaves as the finished photograph reveals him as Atwell's lover. Farrell, who is free of suspicion, is finally able to leave the Pentagon. As Farrell sits beside Susan's grave, two plainclothes men arrive and take him away for questioning. One of the interrogators is Farrell's landlord, who addresses Farrell in Russian. Farrell, who responds in kind, is in fact the real "Yuri", and his landlord is his KGB supervisor. Yuri/Farrell was planted in the U.S. as a teenager and became the KGB's "mole" in the Department of Defense. Aware of Brice's affair, the Russians assigned Farrell to seduce the Secretary of Defense's mistress and gather intelligence from her. Having fulfilled his mission, Farrell is offered a chance to return to the Soviet Union, but he refuses, saying that they cannot make him go back. His handler allows him to depart, stating he will eventually return, and Farrell drives away.