movieId: 8984
title: Ocean's Twelve
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0349903/
ratingValue: 
directors: Steven Soderbergh
actors: Brad Pitt, Catherine Zeta-Jones, George Clooney, Ed Kross, Julia Roberts, Don Tiffany, Anne Jacques, David Sontag, Larry Sontag, Andy Garcia

synopsis:
Ocean's Eleven are living their lives separately off the fortunes of their Vegas casino heist. Terry Benedict (Andy Garcia), the owner of the three casinos, confronts each member of the team in turn, demanding the team return his money, with interest. Benedict gives the team 2 weeks to come up with original $160 MM plus $38 MM interest. They don't have enough and are short $97 MM which they must get in 14 days, or they are "dead men". Danny (George Clooney) and the team decide to stage another heist to pay off the debt. The team includes Robert "Rusty" Ryan (Brad Pitt) Danny's friend and second-in-command, Linus Caldwell (Matt Damon) a known pickpocket, Frank Catton (Bernie Mac) an ex-croupier, Reuben Tishkoff (Elliott Gould) a wealthy friend of Danny, Virgil Malloy (Casey Affleck) an expert mechanic, Turk Malloy (Scott Caan) an expert mechanic and the brother of Virgil, Livingston Dell (Eddie Jemison) a surveillance expert, Basher Tarr (Don Cheadle) an explosives expert, "The Amazing" Yen (Qin Shaobo) an acrobat, Saul Bloom (Carl Reiner) an elderly con man and Tess Ocean. Saul decides not to participate since he is too old for another grand heist.
Being too "hot" to work in the United States, they pick a European target: the world's oldest stock certificate, which was issued by the Dutch East India Company in 1602, worth around 2.5 million euros, and is kept in Amsterdam. The certificate is enough to extend their deadline. The group manages to breach the security around the certificate, in part by physically lifting the building to achieve line-of-sight. But a rival thief, the "Night Fox" (Vincent Cassel), beats them to the document and leaves a message for them. Europol detective Isabel Lahiri is called in to investigate the theft and realizes that she gave Rusty the idea of how to solve a complication of the heist with a description of a similar burglary during their earlier relationship. Surprising the group at their accommodation, she warns them they cannot beat the Night Fox or his mentor, the mysterious master thief "LeMarc", both of whom excel in the "long con", and steals Rusty's phone. She has been hunting both for years. Danny and his crew discover that the Night Fox is François Toulour, a wealthy French baron and gentleman thief with a villa on Lake Como. Danny goes to the villa and steals Toulour's paintings. Confronting Toulour, Ocean learns that Toulour exposed their identities to Benedict (breaking the code of silence among thieves) and hired Matsui to inform the crew about the stock certificate so as to meet with Danny. The Night Fox was trained by the legendary retired thief Gaspar LeMarque and believes himself to be the world's greatest thief. The Fox is incensed that his mentor, LeMarque (Albert Finney), failed to correct a businessman who claimed that Danny was the best thief in the world. The Fox breaks "rule # 1" (revealing another thief's identity) in order to lure the team to Europe, where he can propose a challenge, since going after the same object is the only way to tell who the best thief is.
Both Danny's group and the Night Fox will attempt to steal the famous Imperial Coronation Faberge egg within a week; the first to succeed will be declared the better thief. If Danny's team wins, the Fox will pay off the team's debt to Benedict. With no other options, Danny accepts the challenge. The crew begin to plan an elaborate heist to swap the egg for a holographic recreation. A Europol detective, Agent Isabel Lahiri (Catherine Zeta-Jones), with a romantic link to Rusty, hears of the increased theft activity in Amsterdam. Toulour gives the camera recordings from his villa to Lahiri, who deduces that they want to steal the egg through an intercepted phone call to Rusty. She forges her superior's signature on a request form in order to procure enough resources to track down the group. She then captures most of the crew except Linus, Tarr, Turk, and Saul.
Linus comes up with a second plan involving Danny's wife, Tess (Julia Roberts), posing as a pregnant Julia Roberts in order to get close to the egg and swap it. They are foiled by Lahiri and a coincidentally present Bruce Willis, and the rest of the group members are captured. Lahiri is told that they are to be extradited to the U.S., while Linus is chosen first to be interrogated by the FBI agent assigned to collect them. The agent is actually Linus's mother, who organizes the release of the whole gang. She points out to Lahiri that she will face consequences for forging a signature on a Europol form to obtain the necessary arrest warrants for Ocean's gang. Danny and Tess meet The Night Fox at Lake Como in Italy. At his home, the Night Fox delights in explaining how he was able to steal the egg by climbing to the roof of the Museum at dark without being detected by Danny's Recon squad. He passed through the laser grid, dances his way and avoids triggering the alarm. Danny then reveals the truth: the contest was over before it began, and the egg that the Fox stole was the fake. Danny and associate Rusty Ryan (Brad Pitt) had previously visited LeMarque and learned the location of the real egg which was transported in a military Khakhi bag instead of the armored car. LeMarque also warned Danny and Rusty to assume that the Night Fox would always have them under surveillance. Daniel wins & gets the money. It is not until the end that the viewers realize that LeMarque was actually the mastermind behind the entire operation. By deliberately making the Night Fox feel inferior to Ocean's group, he manipulates the Night Fox into entering the competition. This is "the solution to all our problems" that he alludes to in the meeting with Daniel and Rusty. The Night Fox is the mark, and Danny's team is essentially a pawn of LeMarque. Their task is to simply acquire the egg, and then get caught. This convinces the Night Fox that he has won, although the contest is just misdirection. Another goal of LeMarque is to be reunited with his daughter, Agent Lahiri, who had thought her father had died over a decade previously. Reuben then meets with Benedict to pay him honestly and in full. During their conversation the camera zooms in on the Night Fox in the background disguised as one of Terry Benedict's gardeners, implying that the Night Fox plans to rob Terry Benedict in order to prove himself once again and to get his money back. Rusty takes Lahiri to a safe house that he claims has been lent to him by LeMarc. There, she is reunited with her father, who is revealed to be the man she has been pursuing for years: LeMarc.