movieId: 7570
title: Octopussy
year: 1983
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0086034/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Glen
actors: Roger Moore, Maud Adams, Louis Jourdan, Kristina Wayborn, Kabir Bedi, Steven Berkoff, David Meyer, Tony Meyer, Desmond Llewelyn, Robert Brown

synopsis:
Bond (Sir Roger Moore ) destroys a LATAM secret missile and radar base. Bond is actually captured while trying to plant a bomb. He escapes, using a small fold-able jet, that he smuggled near the base in a horse carriage. He then leads the SAM missile fired at him to the base and uses it to destroy the entire facility. While trying to escape from East to West Berlin, Later, British agent 009 dies (after being attacked by two knife-wielding twins) in the residence of the British Ambassador, dressed as a circus clown and carrying a fake Fabergé egg. MI6 immediately suspects Soviet involvement (maybe to raise foreign currency) and, after seeing the real egg appear at an auction in London, sends James Bond to identify the seller. On MI6 office, Bond greets Miss Moneypenny ( Lois Maxwell ) and meets a new employee Penelope Smallbone ( John Wayne ), Moneypenny's new assistant. He meets with his boss 'M' ( Robert Brown ), Frederick Gray ( Geoffrey Keen ): The British Minister of Defence, and Jim Fanning ( Douglas Wilmer ), an antiquities expert, who accompanies Bond to the Fabergé auction. Soviet Chairman ( Paul Hardwick ), presides over meeting between Orlov and Gogol. Gogol supports mutual disarmament between US and Soviet Russia, while Orlov thinks this is a meek surrender. Orlov wants to use his offensive forces on the Eastern front and use numerical superiority to gain territory. But Gogol fears that NATO will respond with nuclear strikes. Meanwhile Orlov is informed of the stolen fake egg and decides to inform London to stop the auction (confirming he is the seller and now he does not have the fake to replace the real one in the Russian treasury). But, the auction is already underway. At the auction, Bond swaps the real egg for a fake one and subsequently engages in a bidding war with exiled Afghan prince Kamal Khan ( Louis Jourdan ) (who gets a message during the auction (presumably from Orlov, to buy the egg at any cost). Kamal is usually a seller at Sotheby's), forcing Kamal to pay £500,000 for the fake egg (When the estimate was £250-300K). Bond follows Kamal back to his palace in Rajasthan (although, in-story dialogue establishes the setting as Delhi), where Bond defeats Kamal in a game of backgammon (He had noticed he was using loaded dice). Bond also reveals to Kamal that he has the Fabregé egg, making him wonder which one is real. Bond escapes with his the MI6 local agent Vijay ( Vijay Amritraj ), foiling the attempts of Kamal's bodyguard Gobinda ( Kabir Bedi ) to kill the pair. Bond is seduced by Kamal's associate Magda ( Kristina Wayborn ), and notices that she has a blue-ringed octopus tattoo on her back. Bond permits Magda to steal the real Fabergé egg, fitted with listening and tracking devices by Q ( Desmond Llewelyn ), while Gobinda captures and takes Bond to Kamal's palace. Meanwhile, Kamal takes the egg to Octopussy's palace. Octopussy wants Bond delivered to her. After Bond escapes from his room, he listens in on the bug and discovers that Kamal is working with Orlov ( Steven Berkoff ), a Soviet general, who is seeking to expand Soviet control in Europe. Kamal discovers the tracking device implanted in the Fabergé egg and tries to use it to locate the now-missing Bond. Bond escapes Kamal's palace by taking the place of a dead body being transported out. Mounting elephants, Kamal and Gobinda pursue Bond in "tiger-hunting," with Bond being the target, but he manages to escape by channeling Tarzan. After escaping leeches, tarantulas, crocodiles and pythons, Bond meets Vijay and Sadruddin ( Albert Moses ), head of MI6 station in India, assigned to assist Bond. They tell him that the octopus tattoo on Magda is from Octopussy. Bond infiltrates a floating palace in Udaipur, and there finds its owner, Octopussy ( Maud Adams ), a wealthy businesswoman, female bandit, smuggler and associate of Kamal. She also leads the Octopus cult, of which Magda is a member. Octopussy has a personal connection with Bond: she is the daughter of the late Major Dexter-Smythe, whom Bond was assigned to arrest for treason. Bond allowed the Major to commit suicide rather than face trial, and Octopussy thanks him for offering her father an honorable alternative, inviting Bond to stay on as her guest. Earlier in Kamal's palace and later in Octopussy's palace, Bond finds out that Orlov has been supplying Kamal with priceless Soviet treasures, replacing them with replicas while Kamal has been smuggling the real versions into the West via Octopussy's circus troupe. Orlov is planning to meet Kamal at Karl-Marx-Stadt (Chemnitz) in East Germany, where the circus is scheduled to perform. Gobinda sends mercenaries to kill Bond, but he and Octopussy gain the upper hand when the assassins break into the palace. Bond learns from Q that Vijay has been killed by the goons. Traveling to East Germany, Bond infiltrates the circus at Karl-Marx-Stadt and finds out that Orlov is in cahoots with Kamal and Gobinda. Octopussy was not aware of the nuclear bomb plan which would kill her entire circus troupe. Bond discovers Orlov has replaced the Soviet treasures with a nuclear warhead (100 KT yield, similar to a US medium-yield bomb), primed to explode during the circus show at a US Air Force base in West Germany (where the circus is scheduled to perform next). The explosion would trigger Europe into seeking unilateral disarmament in the belief that the bomb was a US one that detonated by accident, leaving its borders open to a Soviet invasion. Bond takes Orlov's car (Orlov escapes on another train but the cache of jewels are in the car with Bond), drives it along the train tracks behind the moving circus train. He boards the train and the car is smashed by an oncoming train. The car is later discovered by Gogol with the jewels in the boot. Orlov gives chase to Bond, but is killed at the border by East German guards after they mistake Orlov for a defector. Bond kills the twin knife-throwing assassins Mischka ( David Meyer ) and Grischka ( Tony Meyer ) and, after falling from the train, hitches a ride in a passing car of German tourists. He finally steals a car to get to the airbase but is chased by the West German police. Bond penetrates the base and disguises himself as a clown to evade the police. He convinces Octopussy that Kamal has betrayed her by showing her one of the treasures found in Orlov's car, which she was to smuggle for him. Octopussy realizes that she has been tricked, and, with seconds to go, assists Bond in deactivating the warhead. Bond and Octopussy return separately to India. Bond arrives in a hot-air balloon with Q at Kamal's palace just as Octopussy and her female fighters have launched an assault on the grounds. Octopussy attempts to kill Kamal, but is captured by Gobinda. While Octopussy's team, led by Magda, overpower Kamal's guards, Kamal and Gobinda abandon the palace, taking Octopussy as a hostage. Bond pursues them on horseback as they attempt to escape in their plane, clinging to the fuselage and disabling the ailerons and elevator panels. In the subsequent struggle with Bond, Gobinda takes a deadly plummet off the roof of the plane and Bond rescues Octopussy from Kamal, the pair jumping onto a nearby cliff only seconds before the plane crashes into a mountain, killing Kamal. While M and General Gogol ( Walter Gotell ) discuss the transport of the jewelry, Bond recuperates with Octopussy aboard her private boat in India.