movieId: 2085
title: One Hundred and One Dalmatians
year: 1961
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0055254/
ratingValue: 
directors: Clyde Geronimi, Hamilton Luske, Wolfgang Reitherman
actors: Rod Taylor, J. Pat O'Malley, Betty Lou Gerson, Martha Wentworth, Ben Wright, Cate Bauer, David Frankham, Frederick Worlock

synopsis:
In 1957, aspiring songwriter Roger Radcliffe (Ben Wright) lives in a bachelor flat near Regent's Park in London with his urbane and dashing pet Dalmatian, Pongo (Rod Taylor). Roger is a brooding musician, who seems to have no problems with the life of a bachelor. Pongo, however, wants more out of life. Pogo believes that the bachelor life is downright dull. Roger is very laid-back, and his apartment is downright filthy. Pogo knows that if left to Roger, they would both remain bachelors forever.
Roger wrote songs about romance, a topic that he knew nothing about. Deciding both of them need a "mate", Pongo watches women and their dogs in the street. Most of them are too old, too young, too fancy, too laid-back or some such.
Noticing a young woman named Anita (Lisa Davis) and her quiet and refined Dalmatian Perdita (Cate Bauer and Lisa Daniels), he drags Roger to the park to arrange a meeting. Roger does not notice Anita as she starts to leave the park. Pongo is determined and again drags Roger to Anita and this time he tangles them both by wrapping his leash around them. Roger and Anita lose their balance and fall into a pond.
Roger and Anita fall in love, and soon marry, with Pongo and Perdita attending. The Radcliffes hire a nanny (Martha Wentworth) and move into a small townhouse near Regent's Park. After Perdita becomes pregnant with a litter, Anita's fur-obsessed, erratic, ruthless aristocrat, and former schoolmate, Cruella De Vil (Betty Lou Gerson), arrives and demands to know when the puppies will arrive. Roger afterwards, decides that Cruella's name would be the perfect thing to use in his new song, and playfully sings it much to Anita's discontent. A frightened Perdita confesses to Pongo that she now regrets the idea of having puppies due to Cruella wanting them. Perdita cannot understand why Cruella wants the puppies as she cannot possibly love them. When the puppies are born, Pongo is a proud father of 15 newborns. One puppy seems to have died during birth, but later it revives when Roger massages it, causing Pongo to call him "Lucky".
Cruella returns demanding to buy them. Cruella is repelled at first when she sees that the puppies have no spots, but Anita says that they would get their spots in a few weeks. Cruella says that Anita cannot possibly afford to keep the litter as they can barely afford to feed themselves. Cruella offers to pay twice of what they are worth.
Roger firmly denies her offer and Cruella, refusing to take no for an answer, swears revenge storming out of the house. Time passes, and the puppies grow bigger, and gain their spots. The puppies include Patch (Mickey Maga), Rolly (Barbara Beaird), Lucky (Mimi Gibson), and Penny (Sandra Abbott) among others. Several weeks later, Cruella makes good on her threat and secretly hires Jasper (J. Pat O'Malley) and Horace Badun (Fred Worlock), two burglar brothers, to steal the puppies. One evening, while Roger and Anita take their dogs for a walk, a pair of bandits named Horace and Jasper approach the house in their car.
They enter the house and get past the nanny by saying that they are at the house to inspect the wires and switches and were sent by the electricity company. Nanny would not allow anyone in the house with Roger and Anita gone, but Jasper and Horace force their way in. They lock the nanny in the basement and steal the puppies. When Scotland Yard is unable to find the puppies or prove Cruella was involved (the police raided her home but found no evidence of any dogs or puppies), Pongo and Perdita use the "Twilight Bark", a canine gossip line, to solicit help from the other dogs in London, and eventually all of England.
Meanwhile, Cruella refuses to pay Jasper and Horace till the job is completely done. That night, while on their usual walk in Primrose Hill, Pongo sends the message to Danny the Great Dane (George Pelling) and his terrier friend at Hampstead, whom they use Pongo's message to forward the Dalmatians' request for help to all the dogs throughout England. In the town of Suffolk, despite Lucy the Goose's (Martha Wentworth) doubts, Old Towser (Tudor Owen) the bloodhound passes the message on to an old farm, where a group of animals are alerted. On the farm of a retired cavalry officer, the Colonel (J. Pat O'Malley), a military-like Old English Sheepdog, along with his feline compatriot Sergeant Tibbs (Dave Frankham) and a horse named "Captain" (Thurl Ravenscroft), investigate the nearby "Old De Vil Place", where puppies had been heard barking two nights earlier.
Tibbs finds the puppies in the old mansion. One of the puppies explains to Tibbs that there's 99 of them altogether. Tibbs notices a small group with collars watching a nearby TV. Realizing they number 15, he surmises they are the missing puppies. After the Colonel sends word back to London, Pongo and Perdita leave through a back window. After sneaking out of Roger and Anita's house, they meet Danny, who gives them directions to head towards Suffolk. They begin a long cross-country journey, crossing an icy river and running through the snow toward Suffolk. Meanwhile, Tibbs overhears Cruella ordering the Baduns to kill the puppies that night out of fear the police will soon find them as the police are looking everywhere now. Tibbs learns that Cruella intends to make them into dog-skin fur coats.
In response, Tibbs helps the puppies escape through a hole in the wall, but the Baduns notice and give chase. Pongo and Perdita break into the house and confront the Baduns just as they are about to kill the puppies. While the adult dogs fight the two men, the Colonel and Tibbs guide the puppies from the house to escape to the shed where Captain, the Colonel and Tibbs live. Following a happy reunion with their own puppies, Pongo and Perdita discover there are 84 more puppies with them. Pongo decides that 84 extra puppies will go with them, as they head back to London. Shocked at Cruella's plans, they decide to adopt all the puppies, certain that Roger and Anita would never reject them. The Dalmatians start their homeward trek, pursued by the Baduns. They take shelter from a blizzard in a dairy farm with a friendly Collie (Tom Conway) and four cows, then make their way to Dinsford, where they meet a Labrador (Ramsay Hill) waiting for them in a blacksmith's shop.
The Labrador explains that a moving truck in the area is heading for London, and they can all sneak aboard. However, just after they arrive, Cruella and the crooks arrive, certain the dogs are in the town.
Cruella and the Baduns prompt Pongo to have his entire family roll in a sooty fireplace to disguise themselves as other Labradors. The Labrador helps them board a moving truck bound for London, but melting snow falls on Lucky and clears the soot off of him, blowing the dogs' cover. Pongo manages to get the last puppy on the truck before it starts up and leaves. Enraged, Cruella pursues the truck in her car and tries to ram it off the road, but the Baduns, attempting to do the same with their lorry, end up colliding with her, resulting in Cruella and the Baduns getting stranded in a ditch with their vehicles destroyed as the van drives off. In London, a depressed Nanny and the Radcliffes try to enjoy Christmas and the wealth they have acquired from the song about Cruella, which has become a big radio hit. The soot-covered Dalmatians suddenly flood the house. Upon removing the soot and counting the massive family of dogs, Roger chooses to use his songwriting royalties to buy a big house in the country so they can keep all 101 Dalmatians.