movieId: 289
title: Only You
year: 1994
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0110737/
ratingValue: 
directors: Norman Jewison
actors: Marisa Tomei, Robert Downey Jr., Bonnie Hunt, Joaquim de Almeida, Fisher Stevens, Billy Zane, Adam LeFevre, John Benjamin Hickey, Siobhan Fallon Hogan, Antonia Rey

synopsis:
After playing with a Ouija board with her brother Larry, 11-year-old Faith Corvatch becomes convinced that her soulmate, the man she is destined to be with, is named "Damon Bradley." This belief is strengthened when a few years later a carnival fortune teller tells her that "Damon Bradley" is the name of the man she will marry. But the fortune teller also says that a person makes their own destiny. Fourteen years later, Faith (Marisa Tomei) is a teacher at a Catholic school and is engaged to a podiatrist Dwayne (John Benjamin Hickey). Faith is still slightly hesitant and is not fully sure that Dwayne is her life partner.
Faith's sister-in-law Kate is not respected by her husband Larry. Larry has no passion for Kate, and only sees her as a glorified house help. Kate hates it when Larry patronizing her by calling her "doll".
Faith is depressed when she is asked to wear her future mother-in-law's wedding gown, which is very old fashioned. Kate tells Faith that life is not "Happily Ever After" as sold by everybody.
10 days before their wedding, Faith gets a call from her fiance's high-school classmate Damon Bradley. Faith is shocked and feels this is destiny, but Damon is flying to Venice that day. Determined to meet him, Faith follows his trail with her sister-in-law Kate (Bonnie Hunt) from Pittsburgh through to Venice. They reach the hotel where Doman is staying only to find that he has already checked out. They search Damon's room to figure out that he had left for Rome and go after him by renting a car. Kate cannot read the Italian maps and the ladies are lost in the Italian countryside with their car out of gas. A group of nuns passing by provides them some gas.
They reach an address in Rome, where Damon had called before leaving Venice, and meet a woman named Anna (Barbara Cupisti) who was supposed to meet Damon that evening. Anna now has a prior commitment and Faith offers to take her place instead.
This is where Kate meets a suave Italian named Giovanni.
They finally reach a street-side restaurant in Rome, but they never quite catch up with him. At the restaurant, Faith and Kate wait for Damon and find that he is one of the booths. Before Faith can meet him, Damon walks away, and Faith runs after him and loses her shoe.
Faith meets a young American man but has no interest until he identifies himself as Damon Bradley. The man had approached Faith with her missing shoe and learns from Kate that Faith is looking for a man whose name she read off a Ouija board when she was 11 years old.
They spend a romantic evening together and fall hopelessly in love. Then he reveals that his actual name is Peter Wright (Robert Downing Jr), so she angrily leaves him and prepares to fly back home. Meanwhile, a suave Italian businessman named Giovanni (Joaquim De Almeida) has been wooing Kate.
Kate reveals that Larry cheated on her. Peter convinces Kate that meeting Faith was destiny for him too. He was not supposed to be in Italy, as he works in Boston. He was a last-minute replacement for a co-worker who got measles. And he ran into Faith at the Piazza.
Peter says that Faith and he were supposed to find each other.
The next morning, Peter tells Faith that he searched for Damon overnight and discovered that he has moved on to Positano. Giovanni agrees to drive the three Americans there. At a posh hotel, Faith meets Damon, a good-looking playboy, and invites him to dinner. Peter spies on them at the restaurant until Damon makes unwelcome sexual advances with Faith. It turns out that this "Damon" is really a friend of Peter's who has helped Peter stage the entire scene. Back in the United States, Larry (Fisher Stevens) finds out that his wife Kate is in Italy. He travels there to find her while Kate and Faith are again planning to return home. Larry arrives in time to make up with Kate.
He also reveals to her that Faith's childhood "Damon Bradley" phenomenon was a prank: Larry intentionally spelled out the name on the Ouija board, then he paid the fortune teller to tell Faith that her true love had the same name. He hasn't told Faith the truth because he has been afraid, she would never speak to him again. Faith and Peter are at the airport when they hear Damon Bradley paged. At the information desk, they finally meet Damon (Adam LeFevre), who is not especially handsome. Peter explains to Damon why Faith has been following him. He also tells Damon that he (Peter) is in love with her, then boards his flight home to Boston. Damon asks Faith if she loves Peter. She realizes that she does and rushes to join Peter on his plane.
The airport staff delays the flight until Faith can board. She and Peter embrace and kiss as the passengers and crew applaud. Their plane then flies into the sunset.