movieId: 4900
title: Out Cold
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0253798/
ratingValue: 
directors: Brendan Malloy, Emmett Malloy
actors: Flex Alexander, A.J. Cook, David Denman, Caroline Dhavernas, Derek Hamilton, Zach Galifianakis, Willie Garson, David Koechner, Thomas Lennon, Jason London

synopsis:
Rick Rambis (Jason London), best friend Luke (Zach Galifianakis), and other friends Anthony (Flex Alexander), "Pig Pen" (Derek Hamilton), Jenny (A. J. Cook), Lance (David Denman) (the bartender at El Matador) and Stumpy (David Koechner), all live and work at a ski resort on Bull Mountain in Alaska.
Hangman's peak is the most adventurous slope on the mountain and Rick has mastered it. The mountain and resort were founded by Herbert "Papa" Muntz (Lewis Arquette) who loved to drink and ski at the same time (which his behind showing as a full moon) until he died doing so. Papa has established the resort by stealing the land from the Eskimos.
His son, Ted (Willie Garson), took over the mountain and is least interested in running it. Ted plans to sell it to wealthy Colorado ski resort tycoon, John Majors (Lee Majors). Eric Montclare (Thomas Lennon) is Ted's PA. John drives a Hummer and is a no-nonsense type of businessman. In addition to being friends, Rick has romantic designs on Jenny but is held back as he is still getting over his ex, Anna (Caroline Dhavernas), who mysteriously disappeared after 3 weeks of summer love in Mexico. Anna was French, had her top on (unlike the other girls) and was not puking. They hooked up. Rick is the "King of the Mountain". It is a traditional race where the contestants have to ski down a slope with a beer mug in their hands. The contestant with the most beer in his/her mug when they reach the status of Papa Muntz is the winner. Pushing, shoving and cheating are actively encouraged. Anthony has been wiping out 3 years in a row. Among all the contestants, Rick gets to Papa Muntz's statue with most beer in his jug, and this time at night. Rick wins again by holding the beer in his mouth. Anthony wipes out, again. The guys play pranks on each other. Pig Pen gets Luke drunk and puts him in the ice and puts a bucket of salt around his gonads. In the morning, a polar bear gives Luke a blow job. Meanwhile Pig Pen has wet dreams about rescuing a group of scantily clad women from the ski lift.
Rick gathers enough courage to ask Jenny out on a date, after Jenny drops enough hints that she will not hang around for Rick forever. After arriving at the mountain, John Majors plans to change the mountain name (to snow-nook) and turn the ski village into a first-class resort but seeks Rick's help in getting his rowdy friends in line so as not to scare off his investors who are coming to Bull Mountain to assess the location and the business potential of the resort. Rick is not opposed to the idea as John will bring in fresh investment and tourists that will create jobs for the local community.
John asks Rick to be his guide and refuses Eric, who is more of a kiss-ass. Rick advises John to put a ski lift up to hangman's peak, which would convert Bull Mountain into an attraction for the adrenaline junkies as well. The friends are angry when John issues them new Unitard uniforms (the cost of which will be deducted from their first paycheck) that they all hate. John brings with him to the mountain his daughters, Inga (Victoria Silvstedt), a Swiss ski bunny, and Anna, Rick's summer fling. After Anna's arrival, Rick then gets drunk and misses his date with Jenny. The friends get busy with scoring Inga, but she is super-hot, and the guys are limp in front of her.
The next morning Rick realizes his mistake and runs to Jenny. Jenny tells Rick to figure out what he wants in life. Later, Anna explains she left Rick in Mexico because she was already engaged, and that Rick was the other man. Rick says he still has feelings for Anna. Pig Pen uses Ted's computer to enter a lesbian chat site, at night, using name "Sally". He befriends "Chloe". Turns out Chloe is Eric. Inga gives a standing ovation performance at the bar's mechanical bull. Luke takes Inga home and into his Jacuzzi. Before he can score, she goes off to sleep. Luke gets his dick stuck in the jet and is rescued by Jenny in the morning.
Barry (Todd Richards) is Anna's fiance, who is a doctor and a pilot and is an invalid to boot. He arrives in town and Rick can't kick his ass, as he is a paraplegic. It's impossible to be mad at Barry. Majors begins to make major changes to the town and mountain, such as changing the dive bar to an upscale club and removing the statue of Papa Muntz from the center of the town and firing all of the employees except Rick and Eric. Majors offers Rick a contract to be his new manager and Rick agrees on the condition that his friends all get to stay. Majors secretly has Ted fire them behind his back. Rick finds out about the firing of his friends and quits his job and races to stop his friends from leaving. Rick gives an inspirational speech about how the mountain is their home and not letting Majors ruin the memory of Papa Muntz, they all grab their snowboards and head for the mountain. The group of friends and Inga (who had sex with Pig Pen to anger John) then cause bedlam at the festivities (they crash into the investor meeting that John was hosting at the base of the mountain) and Major is outraged at Rick's betrayal. Rick frees Anna from her father and takes her to an airstrip where Barry (Todd Richards), her fiance, waits in his plane. He tells Anna what they had in Mexico was special but that he realized she belongs with Barry and Rick watches Anna fly away. The friends defeat Majors and Ted decides he is no longer selling the mountain. Rick asks Jenny out again after revealing he no longer thinks of Anna.