movieId: 2488
title: Peeping Tom
year: 1960
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0054167/
ratingValue: 
directors: Michael Powell
actors: Karlheinz Böhm, Moira Shearer, Anna Massey, Maxine Audley, Brenda Bruce, Miles Malleson, Esmond Knight, Martin Miller, Michael Goodliffe, Jack Watson

synopsis:
A young man named Mark Lewis (Carle Boehm) walks the streets of London, England with a 16mm camera turned on and hidden from sight. He approaches a prostitute on the street where she takes him back to her room. Once there, she looks towards him and becomes terribly frightened. That night back in his flat, Mark views the film he took of him killing the prostitute. The next morning, he films the police investigation of her murder for a documentary that he is making. Mark works as a focus puller at a small film studio, but for extra money he takes girlie pictures above a corner cigar store. Back at his apartment house, he meets Helen Stephens (Anna Massey), a young woman who lives with her blind mother (Maxine Audley) in the downstairs flat. Taking a curious liking to Mark, Helen visits his flat, which has a projection room and a photographic lab. Mark tells Helen that while he works at a local film studio, he wants to become a film director. Mark shows Helen black-and-white films that were taken of him when he was a child. She becomes horrified to see that his scientist father used him as a guinea pig in various experiments, taking movies of him crying while watching a man-woman couple have sex nearby and screaming when his father wakes him up by throwing a lizard on his bed. Mark tells Helen that his whole childhood was filmed; that his father was interested in the reactions of fear to the nervous system. After a days work at the film studio, the understudy Vivian (Moira Shearer) stays behind for a secret rendezvous with Mark, who has promised to give her a screen test for his documentary. Mark turns on his 16mm camera. A blade extended from the tripod is aimed directly at her head. Vivian screams.... The next day her body is discovered at the studio. Mark films the police investigation. Mark promises Helen he will take pictures for a children's book she is writing. They go out on a date. She makes him leave his camera behind and for the first time, Mark seems at ease and to be enjoying himself and Helen's company. Afterwords, Helen kisses Mark goodnight and they both go back to their respective flats. He goes home to his upstairs flat and turns on the projector, not knowing that Mrs. Stevens is there. While watching the murder of Vivian he committed on the previous night, he is a little disappointed that Vivian's face does not have the right expression of terror that he is seeking. Mrs. Stevens startles him with her presence. Being blind, she doesn't know what Mark was screening, but she is suspicious of him nevertheless. Mark tries talking to Mrs. Stevens that he was only screening a loaned film from the studio, but he quickly realizes that there is no use to trying to con her. He promises Mrs. Stevens that he will never film Helen and put her in danger. Mrs. Stevens tells Mark to get psychological help. At the studios, Mark speaks to Dr. Rosen (Martin Miller), a psychiatrist who knew his late father. After a discussion, Mark finds out that the cure for a scoptophiliac (one who obtains sexual pleasure by looking at erotic objects or pictures, nude women, sexual intercourse acts, etc) will take at least two years... far too long for Mark. The police detectives investigating the murders of the prostitute and Vivian become suspicious of this conversation. They start to tail Mark. He knows that he is being followed, but he goes to take pictures of the model Millie (Pamela Green) above the cigar store. Later, the detectives find her dead. Helen enters Mark's flat, She turns on the film projector and sees Vivian's murder. Mark returns and confessed his crimes. He shows her the blade on the camera and an attached mirror so his victims can seem themselves as they die. The police then arrive to arrest Mark as he films them. Then he turns the camera on himself and runs into the blade, seeing his own scared face in the mirror as he dies.