movieId: 26231
title: Performance
year: 1970
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0066214/
ratingValue: 
directors: Donald Cammell, Nicolas Roeg
actors: James Fox, Mick Jagger, Anita Pallenberg, Michèle Breton, Ann Sidney, John Bindon, Stanley Meadows, Allan Cuthbertson, Anthony Morton, Johnny Shannon

synopsis:
Chas (James Fox) is a young man living in London, England who considers his sex life normal although he would just as soon as strangle a woman as make love to her. Chas works as a collector for a protection-racket, and he performs his work with great enthusiasm; beating, terrorizing, humiliating and even killing anyone who puts up any resistance. When Joey Maddocks (Anthony Valentine), a personal enemy whom he is supposed to be protecting, beats him up, Chas kills him. This does not set well with Chas' boss Harry Flowers (Johnny Shannon), who sends his men out to kill Chas. Wearing dark sunglasses and having his dyed his blond hair red, Chas flees his pursuers. While Chas' friend Tony Farrell (Ken Colley) tries to arrange his safe passage out of the country, Chas finds refuge in a townhouse owned by Turner (Mick Jagger), a former rock star who has retired and gone into seclusion to find himself. Also living at the house of physical pleasures are Turner's two love-mates, Pherber (Anita Pallenberg) and Lucy (Michele Breton). Turner and the two women become fascinated by the gangster, his handgun, and his whip marks and turn on to their way of living. In time, they have Chas eating hallucinogenic mushrooms, wearing outlandish wigs and costumes, and willing to have sex with each of them. Meanwhile, Turner becomes more and more fascinated with Chas, wanting to mentally enter his brain to see what makes him tick, perhaps becoming a gangster like him. As time goes on, the four characters start to mingle, becoming interchangeable. Eventually, Harry Flowers traces Chas to the town house. When Chas realizes that he is trapped and will be taken away to be killed, he excuses himself for a minute, goes upstairs and shoots Turner in the head, killing him. Harry's men now take Chas away. Although they don't seem to notice it, Chas now looks exactly like Turner.