movieId: 2087
title: Peter Pan
year: 1953
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0046183/
ratingValue: 
directors: Clyde Geronimi, Wilfred Jackson, Hamilton Luske, Jack Kinney
actors: Bobby Driscoll, Kathryn Beaumont, Hans Conried, Bill Thompson, Heather Angel, Paul Collins, Tommy Luske, Candy Candido, Tom Conway

synopsis:
In the London nursery of the Darling family, are 3 kids Wendy, John, and Michael Darling, who believe in Peter Pan, the boy who refuses to grow up. They know all his stories & want to visit him in Neverland. Their father George doesn't want to encourage this (also because he thinks Wendy's imagination is leading Michael and John astray) & asks Wendy to "grow up", while her mother Mary is supportive and thinks Peter Pan represents the spirit of youth. Nana is the family dog. On Wendy's last night as a child (as her father has decreed that from the next day, she will have a room of her own), she is visited by Peter Pan & Tinkerbell, because she has Peter Pan's shadow (Actually Nana had it and Wendy took it from her). Peter finds his shadow in a drawer and fights it, but the fighting wakes up Wendy. Tink doesn't like Wendy from the first moment as she is the jealous type. She is particularly alarmed when Wendy tries to kiss Peter. When Peter hears that Wendy has to grow up, he decides to take her to Neverland. John & Michael also wake up & tag along. Tinkerbell disapproves when Peter uses her pixie dust to give magical flying powers to the 3 kids. Meanwhile, the pirates are angry as they have not been looting ships anymore because of Peter Pan. Captain Hook thinks of searching for Peter Pan in the Indian territory and ask the chief's daughter "Tiger Lily" for the location of his base. Mr. Smee is his simpleton deckhand. Hook's left hand was cut off by Peter in the past & fed to the Tick Tock Croc (The Croc has a clock inside his belly which goes "Tick Tok" and warns everyone about its arrival). In Neverland Captain Hook spots Peter and the 3 flying towards the Indian portion of the island & tries to shoot them down. Peter distracts him & orders Tinkerbell to take Wendy, John & Michael to safety. But Tink flies ahead really fast & summons The Lost boys (Peter's troops) to shoot Wendy down. They shoot at her (thinking that they are following Peter's orders) but Peter saves Wendy before she is killed. Tink is caught out & is banished by Peter for a week. John leads the lost boys & Michael to find some Indians, who capture them. They seem to think that Peter has stolen princess Tiger Lily & demand her release. The chief tells the Lost Boys that if Tiger Lily is not back by sunset, they will be burnt at the stake.
Meanwhile, Peter & Wendy visit the mermaids who trouble Wendy as they are jealous of her. Peter spots Hook taking Tiger Lily to skull island. But Wendy's flying powers are waning as the effect of Tink's pixie dust is wearing off. She needs Peter's help to be able to fly. Peter follows Hook into Skull Island. He creates confusion by luring Hook out with the sound of an evil spirit and then orders Smee in Hook's voice to take Lily back to her people. Eventually Hook finds Peter and attacks him, but Peter is able to defeat him when the Tick Tok Croc arrives and almost gobbles Hook up. Hook is forced to run for the safety of his ship.
Peter Pan is honored by the chief with the title "Flying eagle". Back on his ship, Hook is told by Smee that Peter banished Tink on account of Wendy & sends his butler Smee to fetch her. Hook tricks Tink to reveal Peter's hideout (He says he has admitted defeat and will leave the Island the next day. and he wants to save Peter from Wendy before he leaves, by taking Wendy away with them on their ship. Tink is very happy to hear this proposal and readily accepts. she reveals the hiding place as Hangman's tree). Hook then imprisons Tink, captures the Lost Boys, Wendy, John & Michael (The boys were listening to stories about mothers from Wendy, when Hook attacked) & leaves a bomb for Peter in the form of a present from Wendy. When Tink hears of the bomb, she breaks free & arrives just in time to save Peter. Tink is severely injured in the blast, which destroys a large part of the Island, but she survives after Peter finds her in the rubble. They both fly to the ship & save the troops from Hook. Hook is defeated (Hook challenges Peter to a 1:1 fight and says if he is a real brave man, he won't fly away, and Peter agrees. Peter is about to be defeated but uses the pirate flag to tie up Hook. Hook cries and promises to go and never return. But as soon as Peter turns his back, Hook attacks him from behind, loses his balances and falls in the water) & the Tick Tock Croc set after him.
Tink uses pixie dust to make the entire ship fly, which Peter uses to send Wendy, Michael & John back home. Back Home Mary and George return from their social engagement and hear Wendy talk about her adventures. They are bemused but are startled to see Peter Pan's ship sailing away over the clouds. George admits that he saw that ship many yrs ago when he was a little boy himself.