movieId: 7164
title: Peter Pan
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0316396/
ratingValue: 
directors: P.J. Hogan
actors: Jason Isaacs, Jeremy Sumpter, Rachel Hurd-Wood, Lynn Redgrave, Richard Briers, Olivia Williams, Geoffrey Palmer, Harry Newell, Freddie Popplewell, Ludivine Sagnier

synopsis:
Wendy Darling shares tales of Captain Hook and his pirates with her younger brothers, John and Michael, in Edwardian London.She is overheard by Peter Pan outside their nursery window. Aunt Millicent, who is not pleased with Wendy's tales, suggests that the Darlings concentrate on her prospects for the future. Wendy witnesses Peter returning to the nursery one night to watch her sleep, but Nana, the family's nurse dog, bites off his shadow. Wendy's teacher finds her sketching a picture of Peter at school. Nana the St. Bernard follows Wendy to the neighborhood bank, where she tries to intercept a disciplinary letter intended for her father and unintentionally humiliates him. Wendy, whom Peter befriends, sews his shadow back onto him while he searches for it. In order for Wendy to share her tales with his group of Lost Boys, he extends an invitation to Wendy and her brothers to visit Neverland. As Nana informs Mr. and Mrs. Darling of the situation, the four take off for Neverland using Tinker Bell's fairy dust. The children are soon attacked by Captain Hook and his pirate crew in Neverland. Tinker Bell, who is envious of Peter's love for Wendy, deceives the Lost Boys into shooting the girl out of the sky after they mistake her for a bird. Thanks to an acorn Peter had previously given her, Wendy is fortunate to live. Tinker Bell is exiled by Peter, and their friendship is terminated. Wendy consents to be the "mother" of the Lost Boys, and Peter assumes the role of their father. Hook and his group bring the three to the Black Castle after John and Michael run into Tiger Lily, a Native American princess. While Hook is being pursued by the crocodile that has been pursuing him for years, Peter, Wendy, and the Lost Boys come to their aid. Following a celebration at the Native American camp, Wendy is shown the fairies' home by Peter, and the two dance romantically. In order to persuade Tinker Bell that Peter will ultimately decide to leave Neverland for Wendy, Hook spies on the couple. Peter, who does not think he can ever experience love without maturing, angrily demands that Wendy go back home when she asks him to express his feelings. Then, determined to keep Wendy, John, and Michael in Neverland, Peter takes off, returns to the Darling nursery, and makes an unsuccessful attempt to close the open window. Since her brothers are beginning to lose their memory of their parents, Wendy encourages them to come home with her. Peter is disappointed when the Lost Boys finally decide to join them. Peter is given a cup of medicine to drink as Wendy bids him farewell. Hook's crew captures Wendy and the other boys after they leave the hideout, poisoning Peter's medication in the process. Tinker Bell, however, consumes it and passes out. A distressed Peter telepathically calls on everyone in Neverland and London to share his belief in fairies, and he does so repeatedly. As a result, Tinker Bell comes back to life and assists Peter in rescuing Wendy and the Lost Boys. Hook violently uses Tinker Bell's dust to give him the ability to fly during the subsequent battle with the pirates. Hook makes fun of Peter during their duel by claiming that Wendy wants to leave him and that she will eventually grow up and find another man to marry. Peter becomes weak and becomes incapacitated after falling. Before killing Peter, Hook lets Wendy bid him farewell. Wendy finally declares her love for Peter, kissing him and making him happy again. Hook is swallowed by the crocodile after losing to Peter. After applying fairy dust to the Jolly Roger, Peter takes Wendy and the boys back to London by plane, where they meet up with their parents, who take in the rest of the Lost Boys. While Mr. Darling makes amends with his children, Aunt Millicent adopts Slightly after she gets lost on the way to London and arrives at the house late. Peter promises Wendy that he will never forget her and that he will see her again before he and Tinker Bell return to Neverland. Despite never seeing Peter again, she continues to tell her children about him, and they tell it to their grandchildren and beyond.