movieId: 6251
title: Piglet's Big Movie
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0323642/
ratingValue: 
directors: Francis Glebas
actors: John Fiedler, Jim Cummings, Andre Stojka, Kath Soucie, Nikita Hopkins, Peter Cullen, Ken Sansom, Tom Wheatley

synopsis:
Piglet lives in his house and maintains a scrapbook of all his adventures with his friends. Piglet sees his 4 friends wandering off in a particular direction in the Hundred Acre Wood and follows them. Eeyore (Peter Cullen), Rabbit (Ken Sansom), Tigger (Jim Cummings), and Pooh (Jim Cummings) are working on a plan to get honey from a beehive. This involves getting the bees to move into a new hive by convincing them that Eeyore is a bee and who is supposed to guide them to their new hive. Rabbit plays the violin; Tigger is dressed like a tree and is supposed to hold up the new hive and Pooh creates the new hive. Piglet (John Fiedler) comes up to them during the attempt but is effectively told that he is too small to help. The plan goes awry when the bees do not fall for it (the violin is jarring to the bees, they cannot understand what Eeyore says to them), but Piglet manages to divert the bees into the new hive using a funnel (the one that Eeyore was using as a voice amplifier) and then seals the hive shut, trapping the bees.
Tigger and Pooh get all the honey from the old hive. Unfortunately, no one has seen Piglet's heroism, having all been hiding from the bees. Piglet, feeling not cared for, wanders sadly away. Piglet is a kind and helpful soul and provide assistance to whoever needs it. He helps a bird who had fallen off its nest to get back to it. Piglet wishes that his friends also needed him and imagines it to be so. Piglet is happy now and returns to the location from where he left. Then, Pooh, Rabbit, Tigger, and Eeyore start running from the bees after they broke out of the fake hive and into Piglet's house. After finding Piglet's scrapbook, they see the drawings that Piglet had made of his friends and his adventures with them.
They all notice that Piglet is missing, assume that he has been scared off by, or kidnapped by the bees and decide to try and find him. They are aided in this search by Piglet's scrapbook, in which he has drawn pictures of the adventures that he has shared with his friends. Since the first picture in the scrapbook is of Owl (Andre Stojka), the gang heads there. Owl says that he hasn't seen Piglet recently. Meanwhile, Piglet gets to the location of the honey theft and finds a broken pot of honey, Eeyore's bee costume and the destroyed fake hive. Piglet decides that his friends are in trouble and need his help. He sets off to find them. The characters use the pictures to tell the stories depicted therein.
The next picture depicts Kanga's (Kath Soucie) house, prompting the gang to remember when Kanga and Roo (Nikita Hopkins) first came to the Hundred Acre Wood. Rabbit (who is visibly reluctant to recall this adventure in the present) hated the newcomers on sight and convinced himself and the others that Kanga and Roo were fierce monsters that needed to be driven away despite the fact that Kanga tried to ingratiate herself with her new neighbors. Consequently, it was planned that they would kidnap Roo and demand that Kanga leave in exchange for his safe return, so Pooh and Tigger distracted Kanga while Rabbit placed Piglet in her pouch and ran off with Roo. After Kanga got home, she quickly figured out what was going on, having seen Roo playing with a reluctant Rabbit through the window. Kanga decided to teach Piglet a lesson by pretending she didn't realize he wasn't Roo. Piglet, convinced Kanga was going to do something horrible to him, was thus humiliated by being given 'fishy oil' as medicine and being made to have a bath. But spending time with Kanga caused him to discover she and Roo weren't so bad after all. Piglet gets all fluffy after his bath. Kanga refers to him as Piglet, which causes him to blush. Piglet told Tigger and Pooh this when he left Kanga's house and they were also joined by Rabbit and Roo, who had become good friends after playing with each other. Back in the present, the group arrive at Kanga's house and are joined by Roo as they carry on looking for Piglet. Rabbit admits that if it wasn't for Piglet, he would not be friends with Roo.
Kanga gives everyone cookies to keep their strength up as they look for Piglet. Pooh takes one cookie for Piglet too. One of the stories told is the expedition to find the North Pole led by Christopher Robin. Christopher marches his friends to the North Pole with a song. During the expedition, Piglet uses a long stick to save Roo (who has fallen in the river after slipping on the banana peel left on the path by Pooh). All the friends try to save Roo, but none of their efforts have any effect till Piglet takes the long stick and Roo grabs hold of it. Piglet's heroism is overlooked when he gives the stick to Pooh and tries to catch Roo, who has been catapulted into the air during the rescue attempt. Christopher Robin (Tom Wheatley) arrives as Roo is caught by his mother and then credits Pooh with finding the North Pole (the stick he is holding in his paws). Back in the present, the friends regret not sharing the praise with Piglet. Tigger says that Piglets hate water and still Piglet was brave in saving Roo. Roo finds Piglet's scarf stuck on a fence in the woods. Rabbit concludes that Piglet is in grave danger as he never goes anywhere without his scarf. Another story told is the building of the House at Pooh Corner. Here Piglet comes up with the idea to build Eeyore a house and he and Pooh are joined by Tigger to build it. The woods are covered with snow and Pooh decides to build it where he thought of the idea. Piglet reminds Pooh that it was him who came up with the idea. Tigger and Pooh find a neatly arranged pile of sticks, which were already in the shape of a house and take it.
Tigger and Pooh do most of the work, whilst Piglet, unintentionally, gets in the way. The final house, however, is a disaster, but Tigger and Pooh go off to tell Eeyore about the house.
Unfortunately, the house is being held together by Piglet, who eventually loses his grip and the house collapses. Tigger and Pooh go to inform Eeyore of the bad news (and that Pooh has offered to let Eeyore stay with him).
Before Tigger and Pooh could say anything, Eeyore says that he was feeling cold due to the snow and made a house for himself. That is what the sticks were which Tigger and Pooh took. Pooh realizes his mistake. Piglet arrives to tell them all that the house is fine. It is revealed that he rebuilt the house himself, but the location remains as Pooh Corner, since Pooh "would call it Pooh and Piglet Corner, if Pooh Corner didn't sound better, which it does, being smaller and more like a Corner".
The house is exactly the same as what Eeyore had built earlier, and Eeyore thinks that the wind must have blown it to its new location. Back in the present, as rain starts to fall, an argument between Rabbit and Tigger ends with the scrapbook falling apart and then falling into the river. Without their guide, the friends return to Piglet's house and, after a time, start to draw new pictures of Piglet and his adventures, some of which are new. In these pictures, Piglet is the hero of the adventures.
Then, the friends again resolve to find their missing Piglet and go back out to find him. They come across several pictures from the scrapbook, which have floated downstream and then find the books bindings, suspended on a broken hollow old log, overhanging a raging waterfall. Pooh goes to retrieve it but falls into a hole in the log. The others try to reach him, but the rescue attempt is just too short. Just as they ask who can help, Piglet arrives and helps haul Pooh to safety just as the log begins to collapse. Eeyore, Rabbit, Roo, and Tigger are now standing by the edge of the ravine, next to the waterfall, but the log inside which Pooh and Piglet were trapped has fallen far into the waters below. The survivors begin to cry and are joined by sad-looking Pooh and Piglet, who have managed to escape. Happily, the friends take Piglet to show him their new drawings, including a large one of Piglet dressed as a knight in shining armor. The next day they hold a party, but Pooh interrupts, taking Piglet to Eeyore's house, where he has changed the sign to read Pooh and Piglet Corner; "the least they could do for a little Piglet, who has done such big things!"