movieId: 2382
title: Police Academy 5: Assignment: Miami Beach
year: 1988
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0095882/
ratingValue: 
directors: Alan Myerson
actors: Bubba Smith, David Graf, Michael Winslow, Leslie Easterbrook, Marion Ramsey, Janet Jones, Lance Kinsey, Matt McCoy, G.W. Bailey, George Gaynes

synopsis:
Captain Harris (G. W. Bailey) finally found a way to become Commandant of the Police Academy; the current incumbent, Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes), is past due for mandatory retirement. Harris broke in Commissioner Hurst's office and looked through Lassard's files to figure this out. Harris is supported by Proctor in his endeavors. Harris decides to send Lassard's file to personnel office to get them to take action.
Proctor's sister married Harris' nephew and hence the duo are related. Its 1988 and Lassard is chosen as "Police Officer of the Decade," and brings his favorite graduates including Sgts. Moses Hightower (Bubba Smith), Larvell Jones (Michael Winslow), Eugene Tackleberry (David Graf), Laverne Hooks (Marion Ramsey), Lt. Debbie Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook), and new graduate Officer Thomas "House" Conklin (Tab Thacker) to the National Police Chiefs Convention in Miami Beach to celebrate with him. Commisioner Hurst also announces that Lassard has reached the state's mandatory retirement age and that a successor would be chosen in due time.
Lassard is initially sad to hear about his retirement but then refuses to feel sorry for himself for the sake of his team. Harris and Proctor (Lance Kinsey) decide to attend the Police Chief's convention as well when Hurst comments that Harris has a lot to learn about acting like a commandant. Hurst says that Lassard has the respect of his men, but nobody respects Harris. Harris plans to help honor Lassard in Miami beach and show to Hurst that he can be a big man.
But Hightower and Jones play a prank on them by booking them seats on a budget rent a plane, rather than first class (which is what Harris wanted). The city council postpones Lassard's retirement until after his return. Meanwhile, jewel thieves break into a museum at night and steal away diamonds belonging to Egyptian royal family of Mac-Ankh-Ee.
At the airport, the absent minded Lassard causes the usual chaos by dropping golf balls from his bag, which other passengers slip on. While there, they meet his nephew, Sgt. Nick Lassard (Matt McCoy) of the Miami Police Department. After landing at Miami airport, Lassard unwittingly takes a bag belonging to jewel thieves (led by Tony (René Auberjonois)) containing stolen diamonds. Mayor of Miami (James Hampton) & his wife Eileen welcome Lassard and his team to Miami. Lassard looks forward to the annual police procedure demonstration that is organized by the convention. Lassard confides in Nick that he is going to miss being with his team and in his office.
Tony realizes the switch when he delivers Lassard's bag to mob boss Dempsey (Ed Kovens). Dempsey says that his boat will leave the country in 24 hours and that's all the time that Tony has to get him the diamonds (which were concealed in a camera inside Tony's bag). Tony and his gang split up and search every hotel in Miami to look for Lassard. As the jewel thieves try to get the bag back, and Captain Harris tries to prove to Commissioner Hurst (George R. Robertson) that he is the right man to replace Commandant Lassard, the usual hi-jinks ensue, including Lassard trying to guess the annual procedural demonstration. Meanwhile the gang has fun at the beach, with Hightower spiking everything at beach volleyball, Tackleberry threatening a shark to "move it, move it, move it". After Harris calls Nick "butt wipe" (as Nick was blocking the sun and coming in the way of Harris' suntan), Nick uses sunblock to write "Dork" on Harris's chest, while he is getting a suntan. Nick has romantic feelings for Officer Kate Stratton (Janet Jones) whom he meets at the convention. Kate is a self-defense instructor and teaches how to handle oneself in one-to-one combat situations with perpetrators.
Harris and Proctor keep striking out with the ladies. Tony traces down Lassard and is mortified to find that he is a cop. Tony gets his bag back from Lassard's room by pretending to be laundry service, but Lassard had already taken out the camera (which had the jewels hidden inside it), thinking it was a retirement gift from the guys. Tony and his men make several attempts to steal the camera but are always thwarted in comical ways.
Tackleberry demonstrates his excellent shooting skills by shooting a fly at the range. Tony finally kidnaps Commandant Lassard (when Tony tries to grab the camera in front of everybody in frustration, the camera flips open and reveals the diamonds), he goes willingly, thinking it part of the convention. Lassard even gives Tony tips to ask for a helicopter and a fast boat at the harbor to plan his escape. It launches a negotiation, which Captain Harris botches (he tries to rescue Lassard all by himself and sends Lassard's team on a wild goose chase), getting himself captured as well. A chase across the Everglades ensues (Tony is on a 24-hour deadline to get the diamonds back to Dempsey, and the time is fast expiring) to rescue the oblivious Commandant. Hightower wrestles a gator to rescue Harris, while the rest of the team deals with Demsey's goons. In a standoff with the smugglers, Nick explains to his uncle that the situation is not a demonstration and that his kidnappers are in fact real criminals. Lassard, upon hearing this information, promptly disarms and subdues his assailants to the amazement of all the officers. At a ceremony, Commissioner Hurst announces that Commandant Lassard will be allowed to continue his duties as Commandant until he sees fit to retire, as well as Hightower's promotion to Lieutenant due to him saving Harris's life during the rescue. Lassard is seen proudly graduating the new class. As form of revenge for Harris' earlier sabotage against his uncle, Nick intentionally moves the chair away from Harris. Proctor (Lance Kinsey) tries to help him but kicks the chair too hard and sending both it and Harris on a collision into the drum set. As the police marching band walks off in parade, Harris is seen screaming for Proctor to help him.