movieId: 8387
title: Police Academy: Mission to Moscow
year: 1994
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0110857/
ratingValue: 
directors: Alan Metter
actors: George Gaynes, Michael Winslow, David Graf, Leslie Easterbrook, G.W. Bailey, Christopher Lee, Ron Perlman, Claire Forlani, Charlie Schlatter, Richard Israel

synopsis:
Russian mafia boss Konstantine Konali (Ron Perlman) is laundering money under the guise of a legitimate business. A highly addictive video game (which has already generated $1.5 Bn in revenues) that allows him to bring down almost any security system controlled by a computer on which the game has been played, with a string of major robberies as the result. Desperate to apprehend Konali, Russian Commandant Alexandrei Nikolaivich Rakov (Christopher Lee) sends for help from America. On orders from Boris Yeltsin (Alexander Skorokhod), President of Russia, Rakov decides to bring in someone he met at a police convention, Commandant Eric Lassard (George Gaynes).
Lt. Yuri Talinsky (Gregg Berger) is the head of the Organized crime unit in Moscow police. Lassard briefs his team about the mission in Russia, then they head to Moscow. Along with Lassard in Moscow are Sergeant Larvell Jones (Michael Winslow), Sergeant Eugene Tackleberry (David Graf), Captain Debbie Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook), Cadet Kyle Connors (Charlie Schlatter) (who gets on the team by accessing a police data base file listing the personnel for the mission and removing a fellow cadet to add his own name. Connors has vertigo) (Connors tries to tell Lassard the truth, but Lassard brushes him aside and welcomes him on the team), and Captain Thaddeus Harris (G. W. Bailey). Rakov appoints Katrina Sergeeva (Claire Forlani) as their translator and Connors has the hots for her. At the airport, Lassard gets into a hearse, rather then escort organized by Yuri and is lost. Yuri is afraid of losing his job and has a Lassard lookalike bellboy (Vladimir Dolinsky) to take his place, teaches him a little English and asks him never to venture out of the hotel room.
Rakov briefs the team that Konali operates out of his restaurant, his home and his warehouse (the HQ of his video games business). As they plan to capture Konali, he has devised a new scheme: to create an even more addictive version of the game (which has a Trojan horse virus embedded in its programming), which can bring down any computer security system in the world (the virus will be able to bypass any security system worldwide , giving Konali access to banks, stock markets, intelligence everything), including the systems that protect the databases which belong to world powers.
Irina Petrovskaya (Allyn Ann McLerie) is a forensics expert who can tell everything about a person just from a strand of hair.
The team figures that Yuri is stalling them, so they take Katrina's help to investigate themselves. They visit the sites that Konali extorts. They visit his saunas (which is a front to fence stolen jewels). Harris bugs Konali's restaurant and learns that he is putting a contract on Lassard's entire team for interfering with his business. An assassination attempt is made at Gorky Park, but fails due to the crowd. Katrina takes Connor to the Zemskov circus. Katrina and Connor get close to each other. Then they visit the casino, where Konali hangs out at night.
Debbie seduces Konali at the casino and Connor manages to get close to Konali and gets hired as a goon in his entourage. Connor meets Adam Sharp (Richard Israel), who is Konali's programmer developing the Trojan horse. He learns that Konali keeps the computer key (the password) at his office at the restaurant. Tackleberry and Jones infiltrate the office, but pick up his physical keys (not understanding that Connor meant a computer password) Meanwhile Adam has finished developing the Trojan for Konali and Konali prepares to release it. Jones receives a message to be at the Ballet theatre as Konali is expected to buy some stolen weapons. Harris overhears the message and infiltrates the theatre as a ballet dancer, as he doesn't have a ticket to get through the front door. Lassard's men arrest Konali after he passes a check to a next seat audience, but it turns out to be some sort of a donation check for a kids organization.. Konali is released, as Connor realizes that they have been set up.
The next day Konali abducts Debbie as he is besotted with her. Connors notices this and the entire team gives chase. But Debbie is put into Konali's bedroom, where he tries to rape her. Just then he gets news that his program is in the police computers and Konali uses his password to get in (which Debbie sees). Konali leaves for his warehouse, before Lassard's men attack and rescue Debbie.
They find that Konali is about to ship millions of copies of his game (with the Trojan embedded in it). Lassard's men intercept Konali at the warehouse and present Yuri with the evidence, but Konali escapes again by giving the slip to Harris. Konali runs to his restaurant where Lassard is having dinner with his new Russian family. Konali recognizes Lassard and engages him a sword fight, where Lassard defeats Konali and arrests him.