movieId: 3688
title: Porky's
year: 1981
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0084522/
ratingValue: 
directors: Bob Clark
actors: Dan Monahan, Mark Herrier, Wyatt Knight, Roger Wilson, Cyril O'Reilly, Tony Ganios, Kaki Hunter, Kim Cattrall, Nancy Parsons, Scott Colomby

synopsis:
In 1954, each boy in a group of Florida high school students (Mickey Jarvis, Billy McCarty, Tommy Turner, Edward "Pee Wee" Morris, Anthony "Meat" Tuperello (Tony Ganios), Tim Cavanaugh (Cyril O'Reilly), Steve, Frank Bell (Jack Mulcahy) & Brian Schwartz (Scott Colomby)) plans to lose his virginity. Tommy and Billy hire a prostitute, Cherry Forever (Susan Clark), at an abandoned cabin. The guys line up. But Tommy and Billy prank them by hiring a black guy with a sword dipped in red sauce that looks like blood. The black guy attacks the guys waiting naked outside taking turns to have sex with Cherry. They all run for their lives without clothes on.
Tim's father Cavanaugh (Wayne Maunder) has done prison time and is not kind towards Tim. Pee Wee is desperate to get laid. His last date he stuck out with Wendy Williams (Kaki Hunter), a girl from his school, as she laughed at the size of his penis. Tim hates Brian for being a Hebrew, but he keeps ignoring his barbs. Tim challenges Brian to a fight and Brian beats him up, as he learned jujitsu to defend himself. When Cavanaugh tries to engage Brian in anti-Hebrew rhetoric, Tim stands up for Brian and asks his dad to back off. The guys go to Porky's (based on Mickey's suggestion), a strip club in the Everglades, believing that they can hire a prostitute to satisfy their sexual desires. The club's proprietor, Porky (Chuck Mitchell), takes their money but humiliates the boys by dumping them into the swamp. When the group demands their money back, the sheriff (Alex Karras), Porky's brother, drives them away but not before he extorts them for the rest of their money, further embarrassing them.
Meat gets rejected by Princeton and is depressed. After Mickey (Roger Wilson), who returned to Porky's for revenge, is beaten so badly he has to be hospitalized, the gang becomes hellbent on exacting revenge on Porky and his brother, eventually sinking Porky's establishment into the swamp. The entire plan was made by Brian, who wanted to avenge his friend Mickey. Porky and his men, joined by the sheriff, chase the group, but the boys make it across the county line, out of Porky's brother's jurisdiction, where local police officers and the high school band meet them. One of the officers, Mickey's older brother, Ted (Art Hindle), repeatedly damages Porky's Hudson Hornet, promising to drop all charges against Porky for driving an unsafe vehicle if the night's events are forgiven. Because the boys are too young to have been allowed into Porky's legally, Porky and his brother agree.
Wendy had bet Tommy that she would have sex with Pee Wee if the boys managed to pull off the stunt at Proky's. This is how Pee Wee finally loses his virginity. In a subplot, the boys peep on co-ed students in the girl's locker room shower, and Tommy (Wyatt Knight), Billy (Mark Herrier), and Pee Wee (Dan Monahan) see several girls showering. Pee Wee gives them away when he shouts at a heavier girl, who has been blocking his view, to move so that he can see. While a few girls run out, most stay, finding the situation funny. To test their attitude, Tommy sticks his tongue out through his peephole but gets it smeared with soap. Infuriated, he drops his pants and sticks his penis through the opening just before female coach Beulah Balbricker (Nancy Parsons), who has a running feud with Tommy, walks into the shower area. Spotting the protruding member, she sneaks up on Tommy, grabs his penis, and pulls with all her might. Tommy pulls free and escapes, but Beulah is determined to prove that the offending member, which has a mole on it, belongs to Tommy, going so far as to request that Principal Carter (Eric Christmas) hold a police-type line-up of the boys in the nude so she can identify it. However, Carter balks at her request. As the other basketball coaches laugh, Coach Roy Brackett (Boyd Gaines) suggests asking the police to send a sketch artist and hang wanted posters around the school. When that suggestion gets even Carter laughing, Balbricker leaves in a huff. At the end of the film, she sneaks out of the bushes to ambush Tommy and actually drags his pants down, but she is pulled off him by police and dragged away screaming that she saw "it" and that she can identify its owner. Tommy breaks the fourth wall, saying, "Jeez!" to the camera. Another subplot involves Coach Brackett taking an interest in attractive Coach Lynn "Lassie" Honeywell (Kim Cattrall). Coach Frew Warren (Doug McGrath) repeatedly refers to Honeywell as "Lassie" while pointing to the equipment room, much to Coach Brackett's confusion. He quickly finds out why when he and Honeywell hide out in the equipment room after an argument with Balbricker, and Honeywell becomes turned on by the smell. This leads to the pair having sex in the room, but Honeywell begins loudly howling like a dog, thus revealing why she is called Lassie. Her howls are heard throughout the entire school, much to the students' and Coach Warren's amusement. Brackett and Honeywell are fired as a result.