movieId: 597
title: Pretty Woman
year: 1990
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0100405/
ratingValue: 
directors: Garry Marshall
actors: Richard Gere, Julia Roberts, Ralph Bellamy, Jason Alexander, Laura San Giacomo, Alex Hyde-White, Amy Yasbeck, Elinor Donahue, Hector Elizondo, Judith Baldwin

synopsis:
Businessman Edward Lewis (Richard Gere) breaks up with his girlfriend over phone, who doesn't want to be at his "beck and call" at a swanky party held by his lawyer Philip Stuckey (Jason Alexander). Edward told his girlfriend that it was a critical week for him, and he needed her to be with him for all his business meetings. Edward is the ultimate power broker, and his upcoming deal with Morse Industries will make everyone a lot of money.
Edward Lewis takes Philip's Lotus Esprit (as his own car was stuck deep inside the parking lot) and finds himself in the red-light district on Hollywood Boulevard. Edward stops along Hollywood Boulevard for directions from prostitute Vivian Ward (Julia Roberts). Lost and struggling to operate the stick-shift, Edward accepts Vivian's offer to drive him to the Regent Beverly Wilshire Hotel. Impulsively, he hires her for the whole night and, despite initial awkwardness, finds her charming, and they have sex in his penthouse suite. The following day, Edward asks Vivian to stay for the week, as he must attend a series of business events while attempting to acquire Jim Morse's (Ralph Bellamy) shipbuilding company. After negotiating, Edward and Vivian agree on $3,000. He also gives her money to buy appropriate clothes. Edward says she needs to be at his "beck and call" with no strings attached. She calls her room-mate Kit (Laura San Giacomo) to leave her money for the rent. Vivian had discovered the previous night that Kit had spent their rent money on drugs as she needed a bit of a boost.
Vivian goes shopping on Rodeo Drive for more appropriate clothes. However, snooty saleswomen won't serve her as she is still dressed like a prostitute, and she returns to the hotel, where she gets stopped by the Hotel Manager, Barney (Hector Elizondo). Barney wants to make it clear that they are making an exception having her at the hotel as Edward is such a special guest. Vivian gets upset as she still has no outfit for dinner, and Barney helps her, along with coaching her on dinner etiquette. When Edwards returns, he is amazed by Vivian's new look.
At dinner, he introduces Vivian to Morse and his grandson David, who is to take over the company. The Morses are charmed by her, but ultimately the dinner does not go well, as they are unhappy with Edward's plan to dismantle their company. Edward opens up to the transformed Vivian. He reveals details about his personal and business life, including his estranged relationship with his late father. The next day, Vivian tells him about the experience shopping the previous day, and Edward takes her back to spend an obscene amount of money on clothes, leaving her to go back to his work as she is transformed from prostitute to lady. She goes back the shop from the previous day to show them the big mistake they made! Back at hotel, she looks like a genuine guest, but when Edward gets home, he is still busy with work, and they take a bath together and talk into the night about their pasts and how they ended up where they are today. The following day, Edward takes Vivian to the polo. While Vivian chats to David Morse (Alex Hyde-White), the grandson of the man involved in Edward's latest deal, Philip is worried she is a spy. Edward dismisses Philip's concerns by explaining their arrangement. With the knowledge of Vivian's true background, the married Philip talks to her alone and crudely propositions her for her services. Back in Edward's suite, Vivian gets upset with Edward for exposing her in that way. He apologizes, admitting that he was jealous of Vivian talking to David and acknowledging that her directness is having a positive effect on him. Edward leaves work early the next day and takes Vivian by private jet to see La Traviata at the San Francisco Opera, a story about a prostitute who falls in love with a wealthy man. She clearly is moved by the music and says, "If I forget to tell you later, I had a wonderful time tonight". On returning to the hotel, he falls asleep and while she is getting ready for bed, she kisses him on the lips. Vivian doesn't do this with clients - and they make love as partners, rather than client and prostitute. Believing Edward has fallen asleep, Vivian says she loves him. As the week is almost finished, Edward offers to get Vivian a condominium and an allowance, promising to visit her regularly. However, Vivian is offended, feeling he is now treating her like a prostitute. She shares her childhood fantasy of being rescued by a knight on a white steed. Edward meets with Morse but influenced by Vivian, chooses to work with him to save his company instead of dismantling it. Meanwhile Philip, furious that Edward's new direction has cost him a fortune, goes to the Beverly Wilshire to confront him. However, he finds Vivian. Blaming her for Edward's changes and angry at his business decision, Philip hits her and attempts to sexually assault her. Edward arrives, pulls Philip off of Vivian, punches him and fires him. After completing his business in Los Angeles, Edward asks Vivian to stay with him for one more night, but only if she wants to, not because he is paying her. She gently refuses and leaves after telling him she thinks he has "lots of special gifts." Vivian returns to her apartment hotel to pack for her move to San Francisco to get a new job and a high-school diploma. She gives her roommate, fellow prostitute Kit De Luca, some money and tells her she has "a lot of potential." Kit leaves sex work and enrolls in beauty classes. Vivian then waits in her apartment for the bus. Vivian's rejection prompts Edward to re-evaluate his life, so he reroutes the chauffeur to her apartment instead of the airport. He climbs out of the white limousine's sunroof and ascends the fire escape to 'rescue' Vivian, just like the knight in her childhood fantasy. When he asks her what happens after the knight rescues her, she responds "She rescues him right back", and kisses him.