movieId: 63113
title: Quantum of Solace
year: 2008
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0830515/
ratingValue: 
directors: Marc Forster
actors: Daniel Craig, Olga Kurylenko, Mathieu Amalric, Judi Dench, Giancarlo Giannini, Gemma Arterton, Jeffrey Wright, David Harbour, Jesper Christensen, Anatole Taubman

synopsis:
Following the events of the previous film Casino Royale, James Bond ( Daniel Craig ) is driving in heavy traffic from Lake Garda to Siena, Italy, with the captured Mr. White ( Jesper Christensen ) in the trunk of his Aston Martin DBS V12, being pursued by a car firing a machine gun at Bond. The Italian Carabinieri also join the pursuit. But Bond evades everyone in a granite quarry. During the Palio di Siena, he then delivers White to M (Dame Judi Dench ), who interrogates him regarding the mysterious organization, Quantum. M thinks Bond is on a personal vendetta mission and warns him against going overboard. When White responds that their operatives are everywhere, M's bodyguard Craig Mitchell ( Glenn Foster ) suddenly shoots one of the guards and attacks M. As the horse race begins, Bond chases Mitchell down a dark tunnel. They both emerge in a crowd of festival onlookers. Bond chases the bodyguard across slick tile rooftops, a bell tower and then crashing through a glass skylight, onto scaffolding inside a renovation. They fight suspended by ropes, both drop their guns and they both race to retrieve their weapons first. Suspended upside down, Bond fires just before the bodyguard and kills him. He returns to the interrogation to find that White has escaped. After returning to London, and searching Mitchell's flat, Bond and M discover Mitchell had a contact in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, Edmund Slate. Bond learns Slate is a hit-man sent to kill Camille Montes ( Olga Kurylenko ) at the behest of her lover, environmentalist entrepreneur Dominic Greene ( Mathieu Amalric ). Camille was instructed to pick up Slate from his hotel. Bond got to Slate first, killed him, found a briefcase and posed as him. Camille thinks Slate is a geologist hired by Greene, but when Bond finds a gun in his briefcase, he is obviously a hired assassin. Camille drops Bond off but he hijacks a motorbike to follow. Camille goes straight to confront Greene. Greene takes Camille back, but says that he suspected Camille was using him to get to General Medrano. and he found that she was investigating his dealings behind his back. Observing her subsequent meeting with Greene, Bond learns Greene is helping exiled Bolivian General Medrano ( Joaquín Cosio ), who murdered Camille's family when she was little, to overthrow the government and become the new president, in exchange for a seemingly barren piece of desert. Greene reveals Camille's past to Medrano and offers her to him, as a deal sweetener. Medrano takes Camille on his yacht with an intention to rape her. After foiling Camille's assassination attempt on Medrano by "rescuing" her, Bond follows Greene to a performance of Tosca in Bregenz, Austria. Meanwhile, the head of the CIA's South American section, Gregg Beam ( David Harbour ), along with agent Felix Leiter ( Jeffrey Wright ), strike a noninterference deal with Greene for access to putative stocks of Bolivian oil, which the CIA believes to be the reason for Greene's interest in the land. Greene wants Beam to get rid of Bond for him.
Bond infiltrates Quantum's meeting at the opera, identifying members of Quantum's executive board, and a gunfight ensues. A Special Branch bodyguard working for Quantum member Guy Haines, a close advisor to the British PM, is killed by one of Greene's men after Bond drops him off a roof in self defense when the bodyguard started shooting at Bond. As M assumes Bond murdered him, she has his passports and credit cards revoked. Bond heads to Talamone, Italy and convinces his old ally René Mathis ( Giancarlo Giannini ), exonerated after Casino Royale, to accompany him to La Paz, Bolivia. They are greeted by Fields ( Gemma Arterton ), a consular employee who demands Bond return to the UK immediately. Bond seduces her, and, using Mathis' contacts for an invitation, they attend a fund-raising party Greene holds that night. At the party, when Camille confronts Greene again, Bond rescues her from being thrown off the balcony, and they leave. On Greene's payroll, the Bolivian police pull Bond and Camille over but Bond is shocked to discover Mathis unconscious in the car's boot. The police obviously knew he was there, planted to frame Bond. One of the policemen shoots Mathis in the back before Bond kills both of them. Mathis dies in Bond's arms, urging him to forgive Vesper and himself. The police frame Bond for his Mathis' murder. The following day, Bond pilots a cargo plane with Camille to survey Quantum's intended land acquisition by air. Bond mentions he discovered she used to be Bolivian Secret Service. Their plane is then shot down by a Bolivian fighter aircraft, before being crashing into a mountain and igniting. With one skydiving suit, they buddy skydive from the disabled plane into a sinkhole. As they wait, Camille tells Bond when she was little General Medrano killed her father, raped and strangled her mother and sister and set their house afire. Bond shares he lost someone too. They discover Quantum has been secretly damming Bolivia's supply of fresh water to create a monopoly. Back in La Paz, Bond meets M and learns Quantum killed Fields by drowning her in crude oil. M tells Bond he is suspended, but he evades his guards and convinces M he is hot on the trail. Camille picks him up and he meets Leiter to convince him he's fighting for the wrong side. Leiter discloses Greene and Medrano will meet in the Atacama Desert to finalize their agreement. Warned by Leiter, he evades the CIA's Special Activities Division raid. At a secluded hotel in the desert, Greene has Medrano sign a contract that will make Medrano the leader of Bolivia in exchange for the land rights. When Medrano realizes that the land rights make Greene Bolivia's sole provider of water at significantly higher rates, he refuses, but is forced to sign when Greene threatens him. Bond and Camille infiltrate the complex. Bond kills the police chief for betraying Mathis, and after killing the security detail, he confronts Greene. He chases him down until Greene turns around and they fight furiously as the building's fuel cells explode and catch fire, destroying the desert facility. Bond interrogates him about Quantum. Meanwhile, Camille interrupts Medrano attempting to rape a hotel waitress. After he knocks her weapon out of her reach, she fights back as he tries to rape her. She then reaches her gun and drops him with one shot, as Bond had counseled her, avenging her family's murders. He finds her surrounded by fire, frightened, and cradles her. They are able to escape the burning hotel finally. Bond reaches Greene fleeing on foot and leaves him stranded in the desert with only a can of engine oil. Bond and Camille leave the desert in his car. He suggests she might help with removal of the dams Greene built. They share a kiss, and she wishes him luck in conquering his demons as she departs. Bond travels to Kazan, Russia, where he finds Vesper Lynd's ( Eva Green ) former lover, Yusef Kabira ( Simon Kassianides ), a member of Quantum who seduces women agents with valuable connections and is indirectly responsible for her death. After saving Kabira's latest target Corrine ( Stana Katic ), Bond allows MI6 to arrest Kabira, unharmed. Outside, M tells Bond that Greene was found dead in the middle of the desert, shot twice in the neck and some engine oil found in his stomach. M tells Bond she needs him back; he responds that he never left. As he walks away, Bond drops Vesper's necklace behind him in the snow.