movieId: 1881
title: Quest for Camelot
year: 1998
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120800/
ratingValue: 
directors: Frederik Du Chau
actors: Jessalyn Gilsig, Andrea Corr, Cary Elwes, Bryan White, Gary Oldman, Eric Idle, Don Rickles, Jane Seymour, Céline Dion

synopsis:
Sir Lionel (Gabriel Byrne) is a knight of the Round Table who is killed foiling an assassination attempt on King Arthur (Pierce Brosnan) by the evil lord Ruber (Gary Oldman). Ruber wanted new lands for himself and Arthur refuses to grant his demands. Ruber challenges Arthur at the round-table and says that he has supported Arthur for many years and his needs are greater than everyone else's. Arthur replies that as Knights they need to serve the people and not themselves. Ruber says that it is time for a new King and attacks Arthur. Lionel tries to stop Ruber but is injured in the attack and later dies from his wounds. Ruber is then driven off by Excalibur, Arthur's sword. At Lionel's funeral, Arthur tells Lionel's daughter Kayley (Jessalyn Gilsig) and his wife Juliana (Jane Seymour) that they will always be welcome at Camelot. Kayley dreams of becoming a Knight, like her father, and trains herself while working on their farm. Kayley was inspired with Lionel's tales of the Excalibur and how it united the lands and its peoples. Lionel told her that before the Excalibur, the people were divided, and Excalibur was the only hope. Only a true king could pull this magical sword from its stone. Many tried and failed. Kayley was born on the same day as Arthur pulled the sword out of stone. England prospered as a nation under Arthur and Excalibur, and they built the greatest Kingdom on Earth. The 3 rings of Camelot represent the Unity of the Kingdom. Lionel had promised that one day when she was old enough, he would take her to Camelot. A decade later, Ruber's Griffin (Bronson Pinchot) attacks Camelot, where he steals Excalibur and injures King Arthur. Arthur orders his guards to alert Merlin. Merlin's (Sir John Gielgud) pet falcon, Ayden (On Merlin's orders), attacks the Griffin, causing it to drop the sword into the Forbidden Forest. The Griffin is driven away by the forest's sentient trees who try to attack the Griffin as it comes closer to the canopy of the forest. The guards of Camelot send out an audio signal indicating that the Excalibur has been stolen. When Kayley hears news of this, she plans to search for Excalibur herself, which displeases her mother. Kayley is not satisfied with her domestic life, and she yearns for a life of a Knight. Ruber turns his henchmen into steel men and a henpecked rooster into Bladebeak (Jaleel White) using a witch's potion to aid him. As a result, the men are fused with the weapons that they were holding in their hands and their bodies converted to steel.
He attacks the farm and captures Kayley, planning to use her to gain entry to Camelot. Ruber knows that Arthur will open the gates for Kayley & Juliana (while his men hide inside the wagons) and that's when Ruber and his men will come out of hiding and enter Camelot. After hearing Ruber's plans & learning from the Griffin that the Excalibur was dropped in the Forbidden Forest, Kayley escapes and heads to the forest, pursued by the Griffin, steel men and Bladebeak. Garrett (Cary Elwes), a blind hermit, and Ayden (Frank Welker) (Merlin's pet falcon), save her. They decide to search for Excalibur, and Kayley persuades him to let her join the quest after she sees that the forest obeys Garrett and that he is one with the natural forces. They meet a wisecracking two-headed dragon named Devon (Eric Idle) and Cornwall (Don Rickles), whose two heads can't stand each other and dream of being separated and can neither fly nor breathe fire. They fight off another attack from Ruber and his henchmen, and Devon and Cornwell join their quest. Garrett reveals he was once King Arthur's stable boy, who wanted to be a Knight. He was kicked in the head while saving the King's horses from a fire, causing his blindness. Following the accident, Sir Lionel still believed in Garrett and trained him personally. Garrett teaches Kayley more about the forest, including the existence of magical healing plants. The next day, they find the belt and scabbard of Excalibur in a giant footprint. Kayley's insistent talking distracts Garrett causes him to miss Ayden's signal, and he is injured by one of Ruber's men. Kayley uses the sentient trees to trap Ruber and his men, and escorts Garrett into a remote cave where the magic of the forest heals Garrett's wounds. While in the cave, Kayley and Garrett profess their love for each other. The next day, the group goes into a giant cave where a rock-like Ogre holds Excalibur, using it as a toothpick. They snatch Excalibur and flee from Ruber in the process. They reach the edge of the forest where Garrett says he belongs here, not in Camelot, and gives Kayley the Excalibur. Ruber captures Kayley, takes Excalibur and fuses it with his right arm. He imprisons Kayley in the wagon with her mother Juliana. Devon and Cornwall, who witness this, rush to Garrett and convince him to save Kayley. By working together for the first time, Devon and Cornwall are able to fly and breathe fire, and they fly Garrett to Camelot. Bladebeak reconciles with his constantly henpecking hen and frees Kayley from her ropes, and she warns the guards of Ruber's trap, exposing him and his steel men. Garrett, Devon and Cornwall arrive shortly after and come to her aid. Garrett enters the castle while Devon and Cornwall rescue Ayden from the Griffin by breathing fire at the creature, roasting it to death. Inside, Kayley and Garrett find Ruber attempting to kill Arthur with Excalibur, gloating about how all-powerful he has become now. They intervene and trick Ruber into returning Excalibur to its stone, causing its magic to disintegrate Ruber, revert the steel men, including Bladebeak, back to normal and temporarily separate Devon and Cornwall, but they decide to end up back together again. Later, with Camelot restored to its former glory, Kayley and Garrett marry and both become Knights of the Round Table. The newlyweds ride off into the distance together on their horse.