movieId: 1961
title: Rain Man
year: 1988
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0095953/
ratingValue: 
directors: Barry Levinson
actors: Dustin Hoffman, Tom Cruise, Valeria Golino, Gerald R. Molen, Jack Murdock, Michael D. Roberts, Ralph Seymour, Lucinda Jenney, Bonnie Hunt, Kim Robillard

synopsis:
Charlie Babbitt (Tom Cruise), a Los Angeles car dealer in his mid-twenties, is in the middle of importing four gray market Lamborghinis. He needs to deliver the cars to impatient buyers who have already made down payments to Charlie, but the EPA is holding the cars at the port because they have failed emission tests.
Charlie needs to repay the swing loan he took to purchase the cars and to bring them to USA. Charlie directs an employee to lie to the buyers (Lenny (Ralph Seymour) tells the buyers that the cars have passed the emission tests, and they are just waiting on the EPA paperwork) while he stalls his creditor by saying that he has already mailed him the check for the remaining money. Charlie will make $75,000 on the deal on the 4 cars.
Charlie leaves for a weekend trip to Palm Springs with his girlfriend, Susanna (Valeria Golino). Charlie's trip is canceled by news that his estranged father, Sanford Babbitt, has died. Charlie travels to Cincinnati, Ohio, to settle the estate, where he learns from the attorney John Mooney (Jack Murdock) that an undisclosed trustee is inheriting $3 million on behalf of an unnamed beneficiary, while all he is to receive is a classic 1949 Buick Roadmaster convertible and several prized rose bushes.
Charlie tells Susanna that his father was a hard man, who never let him drive the Buick, calling it a classic. He says that after he graduated with straight A's he asked permission to take the car for a drive and was denied. Charlie took the car anyway as he thought he deserved it. His father reported the car stolen and had him arrested. Charlie was left in prison for 2 days. Eventually he learns from the bank that the money is being directed to a mental institution, which is the home of his autistic brother, Raymond (Dustin Hoffman), of whose existence Charlie was previously unaware. This leads Charlie to ask the question that permeates the movie: "Why didn't somebody tell me I had a brother?" Although Raymond has autism, he also has superb recall, albeit usually with little understanding of the subject matter, but has extreme skills in mathematics. He is said to be a savant by some doctors. He is frightened by change and adheres to strict routines (for example, his continual repetition of the "Who's on First?" sketch). Except when he is in distress, he shows little emotional expression and avoids eye contact. Charlie spirits Raymond out of the mental institution and into a hotel for the night. Numbed by learning that he has a brother and determined to get what he believes is his fair share of the Babbitt estate, Charlie takes Raymond on what becomes a cross-country car trip (due to Raymond's fear of flying) back to Los Angeles to meet with his attorneys.
Charlie intends to start a custody battle in order to get Raymond's doctor, Dr. Gerald R. Bruner (Jerry Molen), to settle out of court for half of Sanford Babbitt's estate so that the mental institution can maintain custody of Raymond, but Bruner refuses. Charlie decides to attempt to gain custody of his brother to get control of the money.
Susanna, disgusted by Charlie's self-centered nature and his attempts at using his brother as a pawn to gain the money, leaves Charlie in Cincinnati and disappears. They make slow progress because Raymond insists on sticking to his routines, which include watching The People's Court on television every day, getting to bed by 11:00 p.m., and refusing to travel when it rains. He also objects to traveling on the Interstate after they encounter a car accident. During the course of the journey, Charlie learns about Raymond's autism, which he initially believes is not authentic - resulting in his frequent frustration with his brother's antics. Charlies learns about his ability to instantly perform complex calculations and count hundreds of objects at once, far beyond the normal range of human abilities. He also learns about how his brother came to be separated from his family, as a result of an accident when he was left alone with Charlie when Charlie was a baby. Raymond also sings "I Saw Her Standing There" by The Beatles like he did when Charlie was young, prompting Charlie to realize that Raymond is the protective figure from his childhood, whom he falsely remembered as an imaginary friend named "Rain Man", which was a mispronunciation of "Raymond". Raymond had saved an infant Charlie from being scalded by hot bathwater one day, but Sanford blamed Raymond for nearly injuring Charlie, and committed him to the institution, as he was unable to speak up for himself and correct the misunderstanding. Charlie's creditor repossesses the Lamborghinis, forcing him to refund his buyers' down payments and leaving him deeply in debt. Having passed Las Vegas, he and Raymond return to Caesars Palace and devise a plan to win the needed money by playing blackjack and counting cards. Although the casino bosses obtain videotape evidence of the scheme and ask them to leave, Charlie successfully wins $86,000 to cover his debts. He also reconciles with Susanna, who has rejoined the brothers in Las Vegas
However, towards the end of their trip Charlie finds himself becoming protective of Raymond and grows to love him truly. Returning to Los Angeles, Charlie meets with Bruner, who offers him $250,000 to walk away from Raymond. Charlie refuses, saying he is no longer upset about being cut out of his father's will, but he wants to have a relationship with his brother. However, at a meeting with a court-appointed psychiatrist and Dr. Bruner, who is also a friend of Charlie's father and is left in charge of that money, Raymond is unable to decide exactly what he wants. Eventually, the psychiatrist presses Raymond to make the decision, upsetting him and leading Charlie to request that the doctor back off. Raymond is allowed to go back home to Cincinnati. Charlie, who has gained a new brother and mellowed considerably, promises Raymond as he boards an Amtrak train that he will visit in two weeks.