movieId: 25886
title: Random Harvest
year: 1942
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0035238/
ratingValue: 
directors: Mervyn LeRoy
actors: Ronald Colman, Greer Garson, Philip Dorn, Susan Peters, Henry Travers, Reginald Owen, Bramwell Fletcher, Rhys Williams, Una O'Connor, Aubrey Mather

synopsis:
A World War I veteran is languishing in an English asylum. Suffering from shell shock and amnesia, he can't even remember his name and is given the name 'John Smith'. During a lapse in security, while the staff celebrates the Armistice, 'Smith' simply walks out of the asylum and finds himself in the nearby town. 'Smith' is befriended by a local actress named Paula who begins calling him 'Smithy'. 'Smithy' responds to her kindness and his health improves but his amnesia remains. Paula and 'Smithy' fall in love; they're married, and begin a quiet peaceful life together. Soon after their first child is born 'Smithy' heads on an overnight trip to Liverpool for a job interview. While in Liverpool he is knocked unconscious when hit by a taxi and comes to in a local shop. When he wakes up he is confused because the memory of his time with Paula is now gone and his last memory is when he was in the war. Recalling his real name he begins his life again as Charles Rainier and soon becomes a rich industrialist. However, Charles is continually haunted by the fact that he has no memory of the 3 year period from the war until he woke up in Liverpool. Unbeknownst to Charles, his secretary for the past two years, Margaret Hanson, is actually Paula. Paula is instructed by a psychiatrist not to revel herself to Charles or to let him know their son died soon after he left, but let his memories come back naturally. Paula is distraught when Charles nearly marries a much younger woman, but the memory lapse of his time with Paula prevents him from going through with the marriage. Charles, now a famous businessman, enters politics and is elected on his first try. Sensing he needs a wife to help his political career he approaches Paula and offers her a marriage of convenience with no strings attached. Paula agrees and Charles rises politically while Paula anguishes over the love she has for him but can't show or receive back from Charles. After three years of a loveless marriage Paula is at her breaking point and informs Charles she wants to take a trip abroad without him. Paula stops for a few days in the former town where she and Charles lived in while married and by coincidence Charles is at the town where they first met to resolve a strike at one of his businesses. Memories begin flooding back to Charles and he retraces his steps. Starting at the asylum his memories eventually lead him to the cottage he and Paula shared when he was 'Smithy'.