movieId: 8958
title: Ray
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0350258/
ratingValue: 
directors: Taylor Hackford
actors: Jamie Foxx, Kerry Washington, Regina King, Clifton Powell, Harry Lennix, Bokeem Woodbine, Aunjanue Ellis-Taylor, Sharon Warren, C.J. Sanders, Curtis Armstrong

synopsis:
Ray Robinson (Jamie Foxx) is raised by his independent single mother, Aretha Robinson (Sharon Warren) in poverty, but he manages to find solace in music, eventually learning how to play the piano. As Ray plays with his younger brother George one day, George slips into their mother's full washbasin and drowns to death. Ray feels distraught over his brother's death, and begins to develop vision problems soon afterward. By age seven, he has become completely blind. Aretha teaches him to be independent despite his condition, and eventually, she sends Ray to a school for the deaf and blind. In 1946, Ray joins a white country band who make him wear sunglasses to hide his damaged eyes from audiences (Ray tells white folk that he was in Normandy landings and took a direct hit and that's how he lost his eyes). In 1948, Ray travels to Seattle, Washington where he uses his piano skills to get a job playing for a nightclub band (with Quincy Jones (Larenz Tate) & Gossie McKee (Terrence Howard)). The club's owner Marlene Andre (Denise Dowse) soon begins to exploit Ray, demanding sexual favors and controlling his money and career. Oberon (Warwick Davis), who works for Marlene, tells Ray that Gossie and Marlene take 35% commission from Ray, plus Gossie takes double pay as leader of Ray's band. After discovering that he is being lied to and stolen from (she was keeping all of Ray's paychecks from the club and keeping him on a small allowance), Ray leaves the band with Quincy. Ray meets Jack Lauderdale (Robert Wisdom) of Swing Time Records, who gives him a $500 advance on his record, and 3 times pay of what Marlene was paying. Jack suggests that Ray change his name to Ray Charles, to distinguish from Sugar Ray Robinson. Ray plays with Lowell Fulson (Chris Thomas King).
As Ray continues to travel and gain fame with his music (he reveals that he wears hard sole shoes, so he can discern different sounds. that's how he is able to walk without a cane or a dog) (Jeff, who is the driver, introduces Ray to hard drugs), he is discovered by Ahmet Ertegun (Curtis Armstrong) of Atlantic Records (he is promised 5 cents a record deal). Ray performs Ertegun's song, "Mess Around", and becomes his first hit. Jerry Wexler (Richard Schiff) is Ahmet's partner. Ray later meets Della Bea (Kerry Washington), a preacher's daughter. He falls in love with her, and the two get married. Della is unhappy about Ray mixing gospel with his music, but acknowledges his talent.
Ray starts touring, Jeff Brown (Clifton Powell) is his tour manager. Fathead Newman (Bokeem Woodbine) is the base player.
Ray continues to gain fame with his songs "I Got a Woman" and "Hallelujah I Love Her So", and meets up with Mary Anne Fisher (Aunjanue Ellis), a singer. Milt Shaw (David Krumholtz) is the record producer, that distributes them all over USA. On a trip home, Della finds Ray's drug kit in his shaving bag, demanding him to stop taking drugs. Ray refuses, and walks out on a pregnant Della. Ray and Mary Anne begin an affair (Mary asks for a solo). As Ray's popularity grows, Ray hires a girl trio to become "The Raylettes" (for $30/ week / singer), and immediately falls for Margie (Regina King), the lead singer. When the two begin an affair, a jealous Mary Anne leaves him to start a solo career. A few years later, Ray's band finishes early while doing a set. The owner of the club demands Ray to fill the twenty-minute slot he has left, and Ray performs "What'd I Say" on the spot. During the 1960s, Ray's popularity rises (His rates go up to $15K per show), and he moves his family to Los Angeles before signing a better contract with ABC Records led by Sam Clark (Kurt Fuller) (Milt brings the deal that offers $50K advance for next 3 yrs + 75% royalties). A year later, Ray continues to experiment with his music, and incorporates classical and country into his sound, writing hits such as "Georgia on My Mind". Ray also records "I Can't Stop Loving You", for which he receives a standing ovation at a concert.
Later, Margie gets sick while they rest in their hotel room. They discover that she is pregnant, and she demands that Ray leaves Della and his children; he refuses, upsetting her. Ray then writes "Hit the Road Jack" which has a solo by Margie's. With her newfound recognition, Margie leaves the Raylettes to embark on a solo career. In 1961, Ray goes to Augusta, Georgia, to play a concert, and encounters civil rights protests. Ray supports the protests by saying that he will not play if the black concertgoers have to sit in the balcony, and cancels the concert when those in charge refuse his demands; he later ends up being banned from playing in the state of Georgia. Later, Ray's hotel room is raided by the police, who claim that they are acting on an anonymous tip that he has drugs in the room. Although heroin is found and Ray is charged with possession, he gets off on a legal technicality because the police did not have a search warrant. During a gathering, Ray is informed that Margie has died from a drug overdose.
Joe Adams (Harry Lennix) becomes his announcer and they have a successful partnership together, as Ray goes international. Ray and Della later move into a new house in Beverly Hills (Decorated by Joe) with their children, but Della is uneasy in their new home. Joe gets Jeff fired by proving that Jeff was also stealing from Ray. In 1965, Ray is arrested for possession of heroin following a concert in Canada. His record company has trouble getting him out of his legal issues, and a judge sentences Ray to go to a rehabilitation clinic. Della and Ray argue about the sentencing, and he tries to justify his addiction using his past traumas, but Della dismisses his excuses and warns him that he is ultimately going to lose his music if he continues to run afoul with substance abuse. Guilty, Ray checks into to the clinic, where he suffers from withdrawal and vivid nightmares. One evening, Ray has a conversation with his deceased mother, who praises him for becoming strong and successful, but chastises him for letting his addictions cripple him. His brother George also appears, telling Ray that he doesn't blame him for his death. Reformed, Ray promises to kick his habit and never be crippled by anything again. By 1979, Ray has permanently quit heroin and receives his proudest accomplishment: the state of Georgia officially apologizes to him and makes "Georgia On My Mind" the official state song. Ray, Della, and their three grown sons are applauded as Ray performs the song before a live audience.
In the epilogue, Ray continues to have a long and successful career and legacy before dying of liver failure in 2004.