movieId: 5109
title: Return to Never Land
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0280030/
ratingValue: 
directors: Robin Budd, Donovan Cook
actors: Harriet Owen, Blayne Weaver, Corey Burton, Jeff Bennett, Kath Soucie, Andrew McDonough, Roger Rees, Spencer Breslin, Bradley Pierce

synopsis:
A fully grown Wendy Darling, who still believes in and knows about Peter Pan, is married to a soldier named Edward and has two kids, Jane and Danny, many years after the events of the first movie. Edward abandons his family to fight in the raging Second World War, leaving Wendy to look after the kids. In contrast to her younger brother, Jane grows extremely pessimistic and rejects the notions of Peter Pan and Neverland. Wendy is notified that the children will be evacuated on Danny's fourth birthday. Jane quarrels with her brother and mother and declines to go. Captain Hook, Peter's bitterest enemy, and his pirate crew arrive on his pixie-dust enchanted ship later that night. They kidnap Jane, thinking she is Wendy, and take her to Neverland, where they intend to feed her to an octopus in order to trick Peter into falling into a trap. Nevertheless, Hook flees from the irate octopus and returns to the ship after Peter saves Jane. When Peter finds out that Jane is Wendy's daughter, he invites her to his hiding place to take on the role of mother to the Lost Boys, just like Wendy did, but Jane declines. The raft she attempts to use to escape the island sinks. Peter informs her that flying is the only way to return home. The boys are unable to teach Jane how to fly the next day. Jane becomes enraged by their mischievous actions and declares that she does not believe in Neverland, especially fairies. Tinker Bell loses strength as a result of her incredulity, and the fairy's light starts to dim. Overhearing Jane's desire to go home, Hook intends to take advantage of this. Hook gives Jane a whistle to wave at him when she locates the treasure that Peter and the Lost Boys took, promising to bring her home if she does. In an attempt to persuade Jane to believe in fairies and save Tinker Bell's life, Jane asks Peter and the boys to play a game of "treasure hunt" as they teach her how to act like a Lost Boy. Jane decides to discard the whistle after discovering the treasure. Jane is made a "Lost Girl" by the boys, but Tootles discovers her and accidentally alerts the pirates, who apprehend the boys and reveal Jane as their accomplice. Peter chastises Jane for her deceit and reveals that Tinker Bell's light is fading because of her lack of belief in fairies, despite her attempts to explain that it was a misunderstanding. Disturbed by her error, Jane returns to the hiding place to discover Tinker Bell dead. She is thought to be dead, which saddens Jane, but her newfound faith in fairies brings her back to life. As they get to the ship, Hook makes Peter walk the plank. Jane learns to fly with Tinker Bell's assistance. The pirates on a rowboat are being chased by the octopus as Peter sinks the ship with the anchor. Jane is escorted home by Peter after bidding the boys farewell, where she makes amends with Wendy and Danny. As Edward returns home and is reunited with his family, Peter and Tinker Bell fly back to Neverland after meeting up with Wendy once more.