movieId: 7896
title: Ride the High Country
year: 1962
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0056412/
ratingValue: 
directors: Sam Peckinpah
actors: Randolph Scott, Joel McCrea, Mariette Hartley, Ron Starr, Edgar Buchanan, R.G. Armstrong, Jenie Jackson, James Drury, L.Q. Jones, John Anderson

synopsis:
Twenty years ago, Steve Judd (Joel McCrea) and Gil Westrum (Randolph Scott) tamed many towns in the wild west. But it's the early 20th century of the early 1900s and they have been forgotten. These two ex-lawmen have nothing; no jobs, no money, no family and no prospects to show for their contributions. Judd rides his horse into a thriving business community. He runs into Westrum whom he hasn't seen for several years. Westrum is running a crooked carnival shooting game and claiming to the the "Oregon Kid". He has taken a wild young man named Heck Longtree (Ron Starr) under his wing and is trying to make him as corrupt as himself. Hoping to get back his self-respect, Judd takes his first meaningful job in years. He is hired by town bankers to ride to Coarse Gold, and transport the miners' gold back to the bank. Because of frequent robberies on the mountain trail, he hires Westrum and Heck to accompany him. Westrum and Heck, who wants to kill Judd, secretly plot to steal the gold for themselves. On their journey, the cynical Westrum reminds Judd of how they were shattered by society, after sacrificing women and wealth to make the West safe for civilization. He hopes Judd will suggest taking the gold, but Judd remains honest. The three men spend the night and the ranch of Joshua Knudsen (R.G. Armstrong), a Bible-quoting religious zealot who has kept his pretty, grown daughter Elsa (Mariette Hartley) a virtual prison so she will have no contact with men. Heck and Elsa are immediately attracted to each other, but she doesn't like how forward he is with her. Angered, Elsa says that she is engaged to miner Billy Hammond, who is living in Coarse Gold. After her father slaps her for talking with Heck, Elsa runs away, joining the three men. When they arrive in the decadent Coarse Gold, Elsa and Billy decide to marry immediately... which makes Heck jealous and Billy's four lecherous brothers happy. After a hellish wedding, the drunk Billy slaps Elsa and tries to force himself on her. Then his brothers join in and attempt to rape her. Judd and Heck arrive in time to rescue her. Westrum forces the drunk Judge Tolliver (Edgar Buchanan) to lie that he has no legal right to perform marriages in California. So, Elsa rides away with Judd, Westrum and Heck. Heck has come to respect Judd, whom he once thought was just an old man, and doesn't want to rob him anymore. But he feels obligated to Westrum. Judd catches Heck and Westrum attempting to steal the gold and ties them both up. He is infuriated with his friend for double-crossing him. In the mountains, the Hammonds catch up with the group after they beat up Judge Tolliver and found that the ceremony was legal. They demand Elsa's return. Prior to a gun battle with the Hammonds, Judd frees Heck because he promises to remain his prisoner after protecting Elsa. Westrum is hurt and disappointed when Judd will not free him. During the gun battle, Sylvus and Jimmy Hammond are killed. Billy, Elder and Henry flee. Westrum manages to untie himself and escape. Judd, Heck and Elsa arrive at the Knudsen ranch, but the Hammonds are waiting for them after they arrived first and killed Knudsen. After springing an ambush, Judd and Heck are both shot. Just then, Westrum rides to the rescue. He and Judd stand together like old times. In the gunfight, the surviving Hammonds are killed and Judd is fatally injured. Westrum promises Judd he will deliver the gold. Westrum is touched when his friend expresses faith in him. Westrum, Heck and Elsa, who are now in love, allow the proud Judd to die alone as they mount their horses and ride off. In the final shot, Judd gazes at the mounts for the last time.