movieId: 3617
title: Road Trip
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0215129/
ratingValue: 
directors: Todd Phillips
actors: Breckin Meyer, Seann William Scott, Amy Smart, Paulo Costanzo, DJ Qualls, Rachel Blanchard, Anthony Rapp, Fred Ward, Tom Green, Andy Dick

synopsis:
Josh (Breckin Meyer) and Tiffany (Rachel Blanchard) are high school sweethearts. They face a long-distance relationship when Josh enrolls to University of Ithaca and Tiffany enrolls to the University of Austin. They promise to call each other every day. But when Tiffany doesn't call Josh, nor answering Josh's calls, Josh is worrying that Tiffany is seeing another man (actually, her maternal grandfather died). But to show that he is still in love with her, he makes a daily recorded video blog to her. During Josh's last blog, his friends Rubin Carver (Paulo Costanzo) and Barry Manilow (Tom Green) barge into the video. Barry then keeps checking on Rubin's snake, Mitch, urging Rubin to over-feed Mitch. Josh tells Rubin to mail in his blog tape to Tiffany before leaving to class. Josh is flunking Ancient Philosophy class and needs a B+ on his mid-term to pass the semester. But Josh knows that he will flunk anyway. Still worrying about Tiffany, Josh's friend E.L. (Seann William Scott) encourages Josh to move on to another woman, such as Josh's friend Beth (Amy Smart) at his party. But Jacob, (Anthony Rapp) the teacher's assistant, has a huge crush on Beth and she even knows that Josh likes her. Unbeknownst to Josh, he is being set up by Jacob to fail Ancient Philosophy. During E.L.'s party, Josh attends and E.L. holds a auction for women, including Beth in the bid. Jacob also attends the party, too. Beth convinces Josh to outbid Jacob. But E.L. helps Josh win the bid. But after Josh and Beth dance, they decide to have sex. When they arrive at Josh's room, Beth decides to record their sex with the same camcorder that Josh uses for his video blogs to Tiffany, and they start having sex. The next day, Josh confesses that he had sex with Beth. His friends object and want proof. Josh attempts to play the tape but then realizes that Rubin accidentally sent the sex tape to Tiffany. Josh then receives a voice mail from Tiffany saying that she didn't call him because her grandfather died and will be cleaning his house until Monday. Josh decides to go on a road trip because he doesn't have enough money for a plane ticket. So Josh and E.L. get Kyle (DJ Qualls) to come along for his car. Kyle is a compulsive worrier who lives in constant fear of his overly strict father, Earl Edwards. So Josh, E.L., Rubin, and Kyle try to head to Austin, Texas for 1,800 miles in less than three days and leave Barry to take care of Mitch. While Barry is taking care of Mitch, Beth asks him where Josh is. Barry tells her that Josh went to his Tiffany in Boston, in confusion with Austin. Beth then goes to the girls' showers where everyone is naked. They suggest that she should go to Boston to tell Tiffany about the situation, which Beth does. However, the Tiffany she confronts in Boston is the wrong one. But while on the road, the group talk about loopholes and then come across a ten-foot gap that they think will waste 5 hours back tracking. But they soon think that they could jump the gap. Kyle objects but they jump it anyway. They make it but the wheels fall off and the car explodes. They continue on foot and stop at a motel. Rubin tries to score marijuana off the Motel Clerk (Andy Dick) and is informed that Kyle's credit card is maxed out. Meanwhile, Kyle's father, Earl (Fred Ward) tries to pay for a meal with the maxed-out card but is denied service. He then begins an all-out search for Kyle when he is informed by the police that Kyle's car has blown up and Kyle has turned up missing. On their way to Austin, the group goes through a series of hilarious misadventures, such as Rubin successfully bluffing his way into an all-Black fraternity house at the University of Tennessee and a riotous visit with Barry's grandparents. Since Josh's books were destroyed in the explosion, he calls his professor and gets an extension on his midterm, or so he thinks. The group finally gets to Austin and, once they get to Tiffany's dorm, Josh intercepts the tape he sent to Tiffany, who has just arrived back at school. Meanwhile, Earl shows up. He is enraged over what happened with the car and the credit card and threatens to take Kyle back home with him. Kyle finally gets the courage to stand up to him and states that he is going back to school with his friends. Josh and Tiffany watch the tape, which turns out to be nothing but Barry mooning for the camera. Beth has found out where the real Tiffany is and she calls to warn Josh that he has been duped by Jacob. Josh now has 48 hours to get back to school or else he will fail his midterm, fail the course, and, possibly, be kicked out of college. After they talk, Josh and Tiffany agree to break up and remain friends. Josh and his buddies head back to school and Josh arrives just in time to take his midterm - with a little help from Beth. Josh passes the course, and he is now free to hook up with Beth and they make more videos together.