movieId: 3034
title: Robin Hood
year: 1973
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0070608/
ratingValue: 
directors: Wolfgang Reitherman, David Hand
actors: Roger Miller, Peter Ustinov, Terry-Thomas, Brian Bedford, Monica Evans, Phil Harris, Andy Devine, Carole Shelley, Pat Buttram

synopsis:
The story tells of Robin Hood (Brian Bedford) a talented archer and smart outlaw who is a red fox and Little John (Phil Harris) Robin Hood's loyal best friend and a brown bear, who rob from the rich to give to the poor. Alan-A-Dale (Roger Miller) is a rooster and a minstrel who serves as the narrator of the story. While crossing Sherwood Forest, Robin Hood and Little John narrowly escape capture by the Sheriff of Nottingham and his archers. Little John says that Robin is taking too many chances and that the Sheriff and his troops are getting better at chasing them. Robin says that Little John worries too much.
They learn from the sounds of distant trumpets that the arrogant, greedy, and immature Prince John will be traveling through the forest. John has burdened the poor with excessive taxes. John is travelling to Nottingham to collect taxes from the richest county in his Kingdom.
John has usurped the true ruler, King Richard (Peter Ustinov) John's older brother, the rightful King of England and a lion with a mane, whom Sir Hiss hypnotized into going off on a Crusade. Robin Hood is the people's only hope. Robin and Little John trick Prince John (Peter Ustinov) the cowardly and ruthless Prince Regent of England and a lion without a mane, and Sir Hiss (Terry-Thomas) Prince John's advisor and a snake. Robin and Little John disguise themselves as fortune tellers and make off with a number of items from John's royal carriage such as the gems on John's rings, his tax collection gold coins, a treasure chest, John's royal robes and the golden hubcaps on his carriage. Thus, embarrassing the Prince who promises revenge. Robin and Little John distribute the Prince's wealth among the starving and overtaxed villagers of Nottingham. John announces a reward of 1000 pounds to capture Robin. John has a habit of sucking on his thumb when he does not get what he wants. Between John and Richard, their mother used to favor Richard, and this left a lasting negative effect on John's personality. Eventually, Prince John and Sir Hiss make it to Nottingham, wherein taxes are collected by the 'honorable' Sheriff of Nottingham (Pat Buttram) a wolf. Sheriff collects funds from the local blacksmith Otto (J. Pat O'Malley) a bloodhound. Otto had a broken leg and was way behind in his work, and Robin had sent him some gold coins to tide over his difficult period. Sheriff got wind of that and extracted the coins from Otto's leg cast. The Sheriff pays a visit to a windowed bunny and her family. Her eldest son Skippy (Billy Whitaker) has turned 7, and his present of a farthing (which the family had contributed to put together) is snatched away by the Sheriff for tax-reasons. As the Sheriff leaves, an old blind fox enters and reveals to the family that he's Robin Hood. Robin then gives a bow and arrow, as well as his hat to Skippy, and the young rabbit's spirits are lifted by the generous gift. Robin Hood leaves the bunny a bag of coins to help her raise her large family. Skippy, his two sisters Sis (Dana Laurita) & Tagalong (Dori Whitaker), and turtle friend Toby (Richie Sanders) go out to try the bow and arrow. Skippy's first shot sends the arrow into Prince John's castle. Skippy sneaks in to retrieve it, but finds himself face-to-face with Maid Marian (Monica Evans) the niece of King Richard and a red fox, and Lady Kluck (Carole Shelley) the lady-in-waiting of Maid Marian and a hen.
Marian and her lady-in-waiting then invite the children in. Skippy's hat reminds Marian of Robin Hood, and she reveals that they were childhood sweethearts. She wonders if Robin still remembers her. Marian believes that Robin has forgotten all about her as they last met 7 years ago. They play a game, wherein Lady Kluck pretends to be Prince John, and Skippy pretends to save Marian from John. Meanwhile, in Sherwood Forest, Robin Hood and Little John are relaxing, and Robin is thinking of Marian at his and Little John's Forest hideaway. Robin doesn't have the courage to walk up to Marian and propose to her as it has been too long since they have been apart. Robin says that Marian is a high-born lady of quality, and he has nothing good to offer her.
They are visited by Friar Tuck (Andy Devine) the priest of Nottingham and a badger, who explains of an archery tournament held by Prince John, with the winner receiving a kiss from Maid Marian. Against Little John's cautions, Robin decides they should attend. Robin disguises himself as a long-legged stork, and Little John disguises himself as Sir Reginald, The Duke of Chutney. Robin ends up winning the tournament with perfect bull's eye scores, but is found out by Prince John, who used the tournament as a way to capture the rogue. John orders the beheading of Robin Hood. Robin is defiant and refuses to acknowledge John as regent and says that Richard is the only true King of England. The people of Nottingham support Robin. Marian pleads for Robin's life, while they proclaim their love for each other, Little John gets Robin released by threatening Prince John with a dagger in his back. Suddenly the Sheriff of Nottingham intervenes and disarms Little John, and Prince John again orders Robin's death. The Nottingham villagers fight Prince John's soldiers. During the fight, Robin proposes to Marian, which she accepts. They plan to have a honeymoon in London, Normandy and Spain, and have 6 children together.
Robin, Marian, Lady Kluck, and Little John escape. Kluck proves to be a worthy fighter as she defeats all the rhinos and elephants in John's army. Marian and Robin Hood enjoy their time together and explore the wonders of the forest in privacy.
Later on, that evening, in Sherwood Forest, a celebration is held, with a song mocking Prince John, as 'The Phony King of England" about Prince John's fraud and incompetence. The song is then echoed throughout Nottingham, and soon the Sheriff is singing it as well. Prince John, infuriated by this insubordination, increases the taxes (John triples the taxes) to the point where the inability to pay taxes puts much of the townsfolk in jail. Almost the entire town is rotting in jail as they do not have enough to eat or to keep themselves warm. Visiting Friar Tuck's now-empty church, the Sheriff takes a gold coin from the poor box. When Friar Tuck attempts to get the coin back, he is arrested for high treason. Prince John orders his execution as bait to trap Robin Hood. Prince John is still upset that he still has not captured Robin Hood, and decides to hang Friar Tuck, to lure Robin into rescuing the 'corpulent cleric.'
Robin Hood and Little John manage to sneak into the castle, and along with rescuing all those in prison, manages to make off with all of Prince John's gold. Little John is able to get everyone out, except for Skippy's youngest sister Tagalong. Robin Hood manages to get her out in time but is trapped inside the castle. The Sheriff of Nottingham chases Robin with a flaming torch. During their fight, the torch ends up setting the castle aflame, before Robin plunges into the moat, evading the Sheriff's and Prince John's clutches. Sir Hiss criticizes Prince John for the plot, which resulted in his mother's castle being destroyed. Infuriated, the Prince chases Hiss through the flames. In the aftermath, King Richard finally returned from the Crusades, and has Prince John, Sir Hiss and the Sheriff put to work breaking rocks. At the same time, Robin Hood and Maid Marian are married to the happy cheers of the townspeople of Nottingham.