movieId: 520
title: Robin Hood: Men in Tights
year: 1993
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0107977/
ratingValue: 
directors: Mel Brooks
actors: Cary Elwes, Richard Lewis, Roger Rees, Amy Yasbeck, Mark Blankfield, Dave Chappelle, Isaac Hayes, Megan Cavanagh, Eric Allan Kramer, Matthew Porretta

synopsis:
Robin Hood, or Robin of Loxley (Cary Elwes), is captured during the Crusades and is imprisoned at Khalil Prison in Jerusalem. Robin is taken to the torture chamber to get him to divulge the location of his King Richard. Due to his lack of cooperation, Robin's tongue is elongated among other torture techniques tried on him. With the help of fellow inmate Asneeze (Isaac Hayes), who is in for jaywalking, he escapes and frees the other inmates. Robin announces his intention to return to England from Africa. Robin is asked by Asneeze to find his son, Ahchoo (Dave Chappelle) who is an exchange student in England. Asneeze says that Ahchoo needs guidance as he is very headstrong. Robin swims all the way from Jerusalem to England.
Upon returning to England, Robin finds Ahchoo being beaten by royal soldiers. Robin dispatches the soldiers to rescue Ahchoo. Robin discovers that Prince John (Richard Lewis) has assumed control while King Richard is away fighting in the Crusades. Unknown to Richard, the prince is abusing his power. Robin's family home, Loxley Hall, has been repossessed by John's men for the non-payment of back taxes imposed by John on the population to fleece them. He vows to get it back before all his family's things are taken. His family's blind servant, Blinkin, informs Robin that his family is dead, and his father left him a key which opens "the greatest treasure in all the land." Robin meets up with Blinkin (Mark Blankfield), along with the large and ignorant Little John (Eric Allan Kramer), and his friend Will Scarlet O'Hara (Matthew Porretta), whom he recruits to help regain his father's land and oust Prince John from the throne. Little John was demanding toll to cross a small bridge, when Robin engaged and defeated him in a fight. Little John falls into the ravine, and Robin saves him from drowning, thus gaining Little John's services and loyalty. A village boy was caught hunting in the King's Forest, an offense punishable by death and is pursued by the Sherrif of Rottingham. The boy escapes and meets Robin in the jungle, who saves him from the Sherrif by easily defeating him in a sword fight. Sherrif is humiliated in front of his own men and Robin makes an enemy out of him. Sherrif returns to King John and informs him that Robin Hood has returned from the Crusades. This is bad news as Robin hates John and loves his brother Richard. Robin would rather see John hanged for treason.
John meets the witch Latrine to find out more about Robin. Latrine says that Robin is a courageous warrior who is adamant to win back his family's honor. She adds that Robin could spell trouble for John if he is not handled in time.
Latrine offers to make a potion to incapacitate Robin, but in exchange wants John to put in a good word for her with the Sherrif. Latrine has the hots for the Sherrif. On his quest, Robin also attracts the attention of Maid Marian (Amy Yasbeck), who wants to find the man who has the key to her heart (and chastity belt). Broomhilde is Marian's Lady in Waiting, who is adamant to protect her virtue at all costs. Robin and his men are also joined by Rabbi Tuckman (Mel Brooks), who shares with them his sacramental wine and bargain circumcisions.
While Robin is training an army, the spoonerism-spouting Sheriff of Rottingham, Mervyn (Roger Rees), hires the Mafioso Don Giovanni (Dom DeLuise) to assassinate Robin at the Spring Festival (with archery tournament). Maid Marian hears of the evil plot, and sneaks out of her castle to warn Robin, accompanied by her frumpy German Lady in Waiting Broomhilde (Megan Cavanagh). However, due to his pride, Robin cannot refuse a chance to participate in the tournament. At the archery tournament, a disguised Robin makes it to the final round, where he unmasks himself. He then makes his shot but loses to his opponent. Robin calls this situation absurd and pulls out a copy of the script to discover that he gets another shot. The Sheriff and Prince John then pull out their own copies and confirm this (much to their annoyance).
Giovanni's assassin attempts to kill Robin by shooting at him from Royal Folio Depository with a scoped crossbow, but Blinkin catches the arrow in midair. Robin then takes the second shot, this time using a special "PATRIOT arrow", hitting the target. After winning the tournament, Robin is arrested. Marian agrees to marry the Sheriff in exchange for Robin's life. The ceremony reveals the Sheriff's unimposing first name. Before she can say "I do," the castle is attacked by the Men in Tights, led by Little John, Ahchoo, Blinkin, and Will. They quickly free Robin, and a battle ensues. However, Marian is carried off to the tower by the Sheriff, who wants to "deflower" her. Robin arrives and duels the sheriff, during which Robin's key falls into the lock of Marian's chastity belt. After winning the fight, Robin spares the Sheriff's life, only to miss his sheath and accidentally run the Sheriff through. Then the witch Latrine (Tracey Ullman), Prince John's full-time cook and part-time adviser, saves him by giving him a magical lifesaver in exchange for agreeing to marry her. Robin and Marian are preparing to celebrate the victory in a special way when Broomhilde arrives, insisting they get married first. Before the ceremony can be completed by Rabbi Tuckman (Mel Brooks), they are interrupted by King Richard (Patrick Stewart), who has returned from the Crusades. He orders John to be taken away to the Tower of London and made part of the tour. He also announces that, due to the foul stench the prince has left over the kingdom, all the toilets are to be called "Johns". All being as it should be, Robin and Marian are married and Ahchoo is made the new sheriff of Rottingham. Everyone then exclaims "An African American sheriff?" Ahchoo then retorts, "And why not? It worked in Blazing Saddles!" That night, Robin and Maid Marian attempt to open the chastity belt, only to discover that even with the key, the lock won't open. The film ends with Robin calling for a locksmith.