movieId: 2986
title: RoboCop 2
year: 1990
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0100502/
ratingValue: 
directors: Irvin Kershner
actors: Peter Weller, Nancy Allen, Belinda Bauer, Dan O'Herlihy, Felton Perry, Tom Noonan, Willard E. Pugh, Gabriel Damon, Galyn Görg, Stephen Lee

synopsis:
The world continues to hurtle down a path to disaster. A nuclear plant blows up in the Amazon, irradiating the world's largest rain-forest with its nuclear fuel. ED-209 is authorized for deployment in 5 American cities, despite bugs in its programming and glitches observed during its operation. At the same time, a new designer drug named "Nuke" has been plaguing the streets of Detroit. The surgeon general calls Nuke the most addictive narcotic in history. The distributor of Nuke, Cain (Tom Noonan), believes that Nuke is the way to paradise, and is obsessed with power. Cain orders the assassination of the surgeon general and then orders the firebombing of a drug treatment clinic that kills 5 people. The city descends into lawlessness and chaos as people would kill one another just to get enough money for their next hit of Nuke. Cain is assisted by his girlfriend Angie (Galyn Gorg), his juvenile apprentice Hob (Gabriel Damon), and corrupt police officer Duffy (Stephen Lee), who is addicted to Nuke. Omni Consumer Products (OCP) plans to have Detroit default on its debt. The city owes OCP $37 million and claims that this is the reason they are not able to pay the cops. In reality OCP is calling in the debt, since as per their contract, OCP can foreclose on the entire city, take over its government, and replace the old neighborhoods with Delta City, a new community development which was already planned, but with the effectiveness of the RoboCop program.
To rally public opinion behind the project, OCP deliberately under-funds the Detroit Police Department to cause a rise in street crime. Thus, OCP forces a police strike by terminating their pension plan and cutting salaries by 40%. As RoboCop (Peter Weller) is legally the property of OCP, he cannot strike due to his secret fourth command and continues on duty with the assistance of his partner Anne Lewis (Nancy Allen). RoboCop still have 3 Prime Directives: to serve the public trust, protect the innocent, and to uphold the law. RoboCop intervenes in an armed robbery of a gun store and apprehends the 3 criminals who broke into it and killed the owner. RoboCop finds that the criminals were in possession of Nuke, and tortures them to find where they acquired it. Following the lead, RoboCop finds a Nuke manufacturing and packaging facility. With Lewis as backup, RoboCop attacks the facility, even though Cain escapes with Angie. Hob escapes after shooting RoboCop in the head with a Desert Eagle pistol when RoboCop's programming prevents him from shooting at Hob. The shot rattles RoboCop's systems for a few moments but after he recovers, he's able to kill one of Cain's men who was holding an infant hostage. RoboCop continues to be plagued by memories as his life as Alex Murphy. He locates the home of his widow and son and begins watching them until she brings litigation against OCP. When Ellen (Angie Bolling) meets him face-to-face and is responsive to him, RoboCop claims not to know her and that her husband is dead. Meanwhile, the Security Concepts division of OCP continues to sink millions into the development of a more advanced "RoboCop 2." However, each project ends in disaster as all of the formerly deceased officers picked for the project commit suicide after being transformed into cyborgs. Dr. Juliette Faxx (Belinda Bauer), an unscrupulous company psychologist, concludes that Murphy's exceedingly strong sense of duty and his moral objection to suicide was the sole reason behind his adaptation to his program. Faxx approaches OCP Chairman the Old Man (Dan O'Herlihy) to convince him to let her take over the project, this time using a criminal with a desire for power and immortality, to the objection of the other executives on the project. RoboCop tracks Hob down and finds him meeting Duffy, who trades police secrets of upcoming operations against Nuke in exchange for money and a supply of Nuke. Hob himself shoots back at the police and tries to garrote Lewis when he jumps on her back but she's able to throw him off. Having beaten Cain's location out of Duffy, RoboCop confronts Cain and his gang at an abandoned construction site. However, they overwhelm Murphy, chain him down and spend several hours disassembling his body, dumping all of the pieces in front of his local precinct. Duffy is later captured and tortured to death on Cain's orders. Cain deliberately makes Hob watch. OCP withholds RoboCop's repair, citing exorbitant costs. Eventually they allow the operation to proceed and a focus group is consulted for ideas on how to make RoboCop less violent in his methods. Dr. Faxx and a new team repair Murphy, programming him with over 300 new directives added for Public Relations, confusing his mind to the point of compromising his work since he cannot violently attack or take drastic action on duty. After the original RoboCop team realizes that he would need a massive electrical charge to reboot his system, Murphy grabs onto a dangerous power-line transformer to erase all of his directives, both new and old. The concerned picketing officers are then motivated by Murphy to aid him in raiding Cain's hideout. Cain is badly injured in the getaway when his truck flips over. With Cain immobilized, Hob takes control.
Believing she can control Cain via his Nuke addiction, Faxx selects him for the RoboCop 2 project and disconnects his life support. Dr. Faxx has his brain, eyes and spinal column harvested and installed into the large robotic body they've constructed. Hob arranges a meeting with Detroit's mayor, offering to bail out the city's debt to OCP with a portion of the money that was originally Cain's coffers, but only if he agrees to a hands-off policy for the legal distribution of Nuke. Since this would hinder OCP's attempt to open Delta City, they send Cain to slaughter everyone at the meeting, so they could install their operatives and take control. Though everyone else at the meeting is killed, including Angie, the mayor manages to escape. RoboCop arrives too late, but finds a dying Hob, who identifies Cain as the attacker. During the unveiling of Delta City and Cain at a press conference, the OCP President unwittingly presents a canister filled with Nuke. Cain, whose brain is still dependent on the drug, loses control, violates every directive installed into him, destroys the remote control that arms his weapons, and opens fire on the crowd. RoboCop arrives and the two cyborgs battle through OCP's skyscraper headquarters, eventually falling off the roof and crashing through the ground floor and into the basement. Cain breaks out and goes on a rampage on the street. As the rest of the police force arrives and engages Cain, RoboCop heads back into the OCP building and recovers the canister of Nuke. Seeing the canister, Cain stops fighting to ingest the drug into his body. While Cain is distracted, RoboCop manages to jump onto his back, punches through to Cain's brain and rips it out of the machine before destroying it, effectively killing him for good. The Old Man, Johnson (Felton Perry) the Old Man's right-hand man in OCP. and OCP's defense attorney, Holzgang (Jeff McCarthy), discuss the company's liability for the massacre, and indirectly decide to use Faxx as a scapegoat since she is the one who created the RoboCain project. Lewis complains about how OCP is escaping accountability yet again, while RoboCop insists they must be patient as "We're only human".