movieId: 2412
title: Rocky V
year: 1990
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0100507/
ratingValue: 
directors: John G. Avildsen
actors: Sylvester Stallone, Talia Shire, Burt Young, Sage Stallone, Burgess Meredith, Tommy Morrison, Richard Gant, Tony Burton, Jimmy Gambina, Delia Sheppard

synopsis:
Immediately after his victory over Ivan Drago in Moscow, Rocky (Sylvester Stallone) experiences physical complications from the fight. Rocky, his wife Adrian (Talia Shire), his brother-in-law Paulie (Burt Young), and his trainer Tony "Duke" Evers (Tony Burton) return to the United States where they are greeted by Rocky's son, Robert (Sage Stallone).
At a press conference, boxing promoter George Washington Duke (Richard Gant) attempts to goad Rocky into fighting his boxer, Union Cane (Michael Williams), who is the top-rated challenger. Rocky declines. After returning home, Rocky and Adrian discover they are broke after Paulie was fooled into signing a "power of attorney" over to Rocky's accountant, who squandered all of his money on real estate deals gone sour and failed to pay Rocky's taxes over the previous six years. His mansion has been mortgaged by $400,000, but his attorney tells Rocky that it is fixable with a few more fights. Rocky considers accepting the fight with Cane, but Adrian urges him to see a doctor. Rocky has suffered from brain damage caused by the head-trauma he received at the hands of Ivan Drago.. Because of his injuries, Rocky is forced to officially retire from boxing. His home and belongings are sold to pay the debt and the Balboas move back to their old working-class neighborhood in Philadelphia. Rocky visits Mighty Mick's Gym (willed to his son by his old trainer Mickey Goldmill (Burgess Meredith)) which has fallen into disrepair. Seeing a vision of himself and Mickey from years past, Rocky draws inspiration to become a trainer himself and reopens the gym.
Duke again approaches Rocky and asks him to fight, saying that he can make a lot of money and wish all of his troubles away. Duke even has his medical reports and says that the fight will be held internationally in a country where he can get a boxing license. But Adrian intervenes again, and communicates a firm NO.. Rocky and Paulie meet a young fighter from Oklahoma named Tommy Gunn (Tommy Morrison). Tommy has power, but lacks the boxer's finesse.. he is more of a street fighter.. Rocky initially says he knows nothing about being a manager or a trainer, as he was always "managed".. But later he agrees to become his manager, when Tommy persists and asks for just one shot. Rocky gives him a place to stay in his basement.. Training him gives Rocky a sense of purpose, and Tommy rises to become a top contender. Distracted with Tommy's training, Rocky neglects Robert, who is being bullied at school. After learning to defend himself (Robert is proud of himself and wants to share his joy with Rocky, but Rocky is too busy with Tommy to even notice), Robert falls in with the wrong crowd and becomes withdrawn from his family.
Rocky teaches Tommy about how to channel his fears into being a better fighter.. Tommy starts winning fights and is being noticed.. Soon he is 16-0 Union Cane wins the vacant world heavyweight title. Throughout his career Gunn is called Rocky's "shadow", and angrily seeks out another manager Adrian attempts to comfort Rocky. Still wanting to do business with Rocky, Washington showers Tommy with luxuries and promises him that he is the only path to a shot at the title. Rocky insists dealing with Washington will end badly, causing Tommy to desert him.
Adrian makes Rocky realize that he has been neglecting Robert, due to his closeness to Tommy. Rocky apologizes to Robert and they mend their relationship. Tommy defeats Cane for the heavyweight title with a first round knockout but is jeered by spectators for leaving Rocky and hounded by reporters after the fight. Tommy gives all the credit for his success to George Washington Duke, which only fans the flames of contempt for Tommy by the fans and media. They insist that Cane was nothing but a "paper champion", because Cane did not win the title from Balboa.
Washington convinces Tommy that he needs to secure a title fight with Rocky to refute the notion that he is not the real champion. Washington and Tommy show up at the local bar with a live television crew to goad Rocky into accepting a title fight. Rocky declines and tries to reason with him, but Tommy calls him weak, prompting Paulie to stand up for Rocky. When Tommy punches Paulie, Rocky challenges Tommy to a street fight. Tommy accepts. Rocky knocks him to the ground with a flurry of punches, but Tommy gets up and attacks Rocky from behind. Rocky is beaten down before he hears the voice of Mickey urging him to get up and continue the fight. Rocky gets up and, with Robert, Paulie, and the neighborhood crowd cheering him on, he defeats Tommy. While Tommy is escorted away by the police, Washington threatens to sue Rocky if he touches him. After a brief hesitation, Rocky knocks him onto the hood of a car.
Months later, Rocky and Robert explore the Philadelphia Museum of Art, and Rocky gives his son Rocky Marciano's cuff-link, given to him years ago as a gift from Mickey.