movieId: 2724
title: Runaway Bride
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0163187/
ratingValue: 
directors: Garry Marshall
actors: Julia Roberts, Richard Gere, Joan Cusack, Hector Elizondo, Rita Wilson, Paul Dooley, Christopher Meloni, Donal Logue, Reg Rogers, Yul Vazquez

synopsis:
Maggie Carpenter (Julia Roberts) is a spirited and attractive young woman who has had a number of unsuccessful relationships. Maggie, nervous of being married, has left a trail of fiance's. It seems, she's left three men waiting for her at the altar on their wedding day (all of runaway attempts are caught on tape), receiving tabloid fame and the dubious nickname "The Runaway Bride". Meanwhile, in New York, reporter Homer Eisenhower Graham or "Ike" (Richard Gere), writes a column about her that contains several factual errors, supplied to him by the third of Maggie's jilted exes George "Bug Guy" Swilling (Reg Rogers) for revenge.
Maggie reads the article in her hometown and is livid. She shoots off a letter to the editor of the paper Ellie (Rita Wilson) complaining that the article is factually incorrect. Ellie is Ike's former wife and is now married to Ike's boss Fisher.
Ike is fired for not verifying his source. Later, Ike's boss Fisher (Héctor Elizondo) offers him a chance to restore his reputation by writing an in-depth, truthful article about Maggie, if only to prove that she is indeed the heartless "man-eater" he claimed her to be. Ike then decides to write an in-depth article about Maggie in a bid to get his job back. He travels to Hale, Maryland, where he finds her living with her family and on her fourth attempt to become married.
Maggie runs a hardware store in town. Peggy Flemming (Joan Cusack) is Maggie's best friend. The store is owned by Maggie's father Walter (Paul Dooley). The fourth groom-to-be, Bob Kelly (Christopher Meloni), a football coach at the local high school who treats Maggie like one of the players on his sports team. Bob Kelly speaks in constant sports analogies and has been working with Maggie to help her "visualize" the wedding.
Ike meets Maggie and tells her that he believes that she is going to run out on Bob just as she did on her first three fiance's. Ike says that he will not leave town until she does. Ike befriends Maggie's family to her annoyance. Walter lends Ike the wedding tapes. Ike is able to see how Maggie left "Dead Head" Gill Chavez (Yul Vazquez), the first groom who was a musician and a car mechanic, Father Brian Norris (Donal Logue), the 2nd groom who later became a priest and then George, the third groom. While doing research for his story, Ike follows Maggie around town, much to her annoyance, and speaks with her friends, family, and former fiance's, all of whom are happy to share their thoughts.
Fed up with his intrusiveness, Maggie offers him the opportunity to spend time with her one-on-one and see for himself that she is not a bad person. During this period, Ike and Maggie grow closer, each using the other's feedback to make improvements in their personal lives.
Ike learns that Maggie used to date Peggy's husband Corey, before Peggy and Corey got married. Peggy is a bit irritated that Maggie and Corey are friends even to this day. Maggie speaks to Peggy and understands her feelings. Peggy says that Maggie tries to project herself as mysterious and wanting protection from a man. As Ike research Maggie's history, he discovers that she adopts the interests of each of her fiance's, signified most prominently by her choice of eggs. She simply repeats Bob's order at the diner of omelet with egg whites. While George claimed that Maggie liked poached eggs, just like him.
Gill believes that Maggie got a tattoo at a concert but turns out it was only a stick on as Maggie is afraid of needles.
Ike learns that Maggie designs unique lamps from discarded hardware parts.
Ike finds himself getting attracted towards Maggie. At a Pre-wedding luau celebration, he defends Maggie from the public mockery she receives at a roast from her family and guests, causing her to leave the room in embarrassment. Ike confronts Maggie outside and accuses her of not truly knowing herself and just adjusting her thoughts to what others expect from her; she in turn calls him out for his cynicism, suggesting he uses his column to mock the lives of others because he is too afraid to pursue a meaningful life for himself. In the middle of the wedding rehearsal, Bob helps walk Maggie down the aisle, and asks Ike to stand in his place as the groom. This proves to be a mistake, when Ike and Maggie "practice" the kiss right in front of Bob, finally admitting their feelings for one another. As a result, Bob punches Ike in the face before storming out of the church. Soon after, Ike and Maggie agree to marry since the wedding is already set to take place. But on the day of the wedding, Maggie gets cold feet (there was a huge media presence at the event, who were waiting with bated breath to see the outcome of Maggie's 4th attempt at a wedding), and leaves Ike, too, standing at the altar. As she rides away on a FedEx truck, Ike runs after her, but can't catch up. Later, we see Ike living in New York and Maggie trying to discover herself, trying different types of eggs, and putting her lighting designs up for sale in New York. She shows up unexpectedly at Ike's apartment one night where he finds her making friends with his cat, Italics.
Maggie then explains that she's been running because every other guy she was engaged to was only engaged to the idea she had created for them rather than the real her- and when she was marrying Ike she was simply freaked out at the crowd-, and "turns in" her running shoes just before proposing to Ike. The two are married in a private ceremony outside, on a hill, avoiding the big ceremonies that drove Maggie away in the past.
In the end, they are shown riding away on horseback while everyone celebrates the fact that Maggie finally got married.