movieId: 2028
title: Saving Private Ryan
year: 1998
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120815/
ratingValue: 
directors: Steven Spielberg
actors: Tom Hanks, Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg, Vin Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy Davies, Matt Damon, Ted Danson

synopsis:
At the Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial on the English Channel in the north of France. An elderly man (Harrison Young) approaches the cemetery and walks among the rows of gravestones, which are mostly marble crosses. He is accompanied by his wife, his daughter and her husband, and three teenage granddaughters. He searches the crosses and stops at a specific one, where he falls to his knees, crying. June 6, 1944, Omaha Beach, Dog Green Sector: On the choppy waters of the English Channel, American Ranger soldiers are headed to Omaha Beach in landing vehicles. The captain of one unit, John H. Miller (Tom Hanks) is leading his men. Miller tells his men, when they land, to "clear the murder holes" and check their rifles for sand and water when they exit the boats. Miller's right hand shakes occasionally. When the landing ramp at the front of the boat opens, the men are immediately hit by machine gun fire from concrete German bunkers built into the cliffs at the end of the beach. Many men are instantly cut down or are forced to jump over the gunwales of the boats, into the surf, where their heavy gear drowns a few of them. More take refuge behind the steel tank obstacles lining the beach. As Miller exits the boat, a mortar hits nearby and the blast temporarily stuns him, knocking his helmet off. One private looks Miller in the eye and asks him what to do. The sound returns and Miller orders his sergeant, Mike Horvath (Tom Sizemore), to move his men up the beach and out of the line of enemy fire. The German barrage kills most of the US Army troops. Most of the wounded are eviscerated or missing limbs and die slowly on the beach, despite the efforts of medics to treat them. Whomever is left in Miller's platoon assembles at a sandbar that provides very little cover from the German bombardment. Miller orders his men to use Bangalore explosives to clear out the barbed wire and mines behind the sandbar for their advance. The men make it to the nearest concrete bunker where a German machine gun nest on a nearby cliff keeps them from moving further. After sending a few of his men into the fire zone where they're cut down immediately, Miller has his sniper, Pvt. Jackson (Barry Pepper), run into the fire zone and take out the men in the machine gun nest. Jackson's efforts are successful, and Miller moves his men behind the bunker where a soldier with a flamethrower sets the bunker ablaze. Miller's men engage other German soldiers in the trenches behind the bunker, quickly creating an exit route from Omaha for the rest of the battalion. Pvt. Caparzo (Vin Diesel) finds a Hitler Youth knife which he gives to his friend, Pvt. Stanley "Fish" Mellish (Adam Goldberg). Mellish begins to sob.
Horvath collects a handful of dirt in a small metal can marked "France" and puts it into his haversack alongside cans marked "Italy" and "Africa". Horvath comments to Miller that the beach commands "quite a view". It is covered with the bodies of thousands of American soldiers. On the backpack of one of them is the name "S. Ryan". At the War Department in the United States, rows of secretaries are typing death notices to be sent to the families of the men killed in various battles around the world. One of the women typing discovers three letters for three men from the same family. The three men are all brothers from the Ryan family of Iowa. The fourth and youngest son of Mrs. Ryan (Amanda Boxer), James Francis (Matt Damon), is part of an airborne Army unit, the 101st, dropped into Normandy ahead of the beach invasion and his whereabouts are unknown. The letters are brought to the attention of General George Marshall (Harve Presnell) who, after reading a poignant letter sent by Abraham Lincoln to a family under similar circumstances during the Civil War, orders his officers to James and have him brought home immediately. Back in Normandy, Miller meets with his commanding officer Walter Anderson (Dennis Farina). Miller is tasked with taking a squad into Normandy to find James Francis Ryan and bring him back. Miller gathers what men he can and finds Corporal Upham (Jeremy Davies) in the camp press box to accompany the squad as a translator - Upham speaks fluent French and German. The squad sets out in the French countryside. Reiben (Edward Burns), a hotheaded private from Brooklyn, questions the mission, wanting to know if the effort to find Ryan is worth the lives of men who should be fighting more important battles to liberate France and Europe. Miller himself is also skeptical about the mission but understands that his current orders are more important. The squad arrives in a small French village where Army units are currently at a standstill with the German forces they're fighting. Ryan is not there. They move out to cross the town and come across a French family trapped in the live fire zone. The father insists the squad take his young daughter to safety. Miller refuses but Caparzo takes her anyway. He is suddenly shot in the chest by a sniper. The squad takes cover and Jackson is sent out to a hidden vantage point. Jackson takes careful and aim and kills the man, putting his shot through the sniper's telescope. In the meantime, Caparzo has bled to death in the street and Miller, while standing over him, harshly tells his men that they're not to take in any children. Wade (Giovanni Ribisi) team's diligent and caring combat medic, retrieves a blood-stained letter from the body that Caparzo had been writing to his father. In another part of the village, the men sit down to take a rest. A sergeant sends one of his men to find their CO. When he sits down, he knocks over a weakened brick wall that reveals a squad of German soldiers who were also behind it. A standoff ensues. The Germans are all unexpectedly slaughtered by machine-gun fire from the Army unit's commanding Captain and the man sent to find him, both of whom had opened fire from a walkway over the courtyard. From another 101st private being treated for a leg wound, the squad learns that their rallying point is nearby, and that Ryan may have gone there. They later find James Frederick Ryan, but realize he is the wrong man with a similar name.
The squad spends a few hours resting in a church. Wade rewrites the blood-stained letter Caparzo wanted to send to his father. Horvath and Miller talk about how many men Miller has lost under his command. Cpl. Upham talks to the captain about a betting pool the men have going where they try to guess Miller's occupation before the war began. The squad comes across a rallying point near a wrecked troop glider. The pilot gives Miller a bag full of dog tags taken from dead soldiers. Men from Army Airborne units march by. Wade admonishes Reiben, Mellish, and Jackson for callously searching through a pile of deceased soldiers' dog tags in front of passing troops, hoping to find Ryan's among them and conclude their mission.
Miller beings to question the passing soldiers, asking if any of them know Ryan. He gets lucky with one man who is from Ryan's unit who tells him that Ryan was assigned to a mixed unit that's guarding a bridge across the Merderet River in the nearby village of Ramelle. Miller determines that the bridge is of vital importance to the Army. The squad sets out again. Miller and Horvath spotted a machine gun nest near a radar tower. Thought it would be easier, as Reiben suggests, to sneak around the tower and the Germans guarding it, Miller resolves to take out the nest so that the next Allied unit will not be surprised and killed. Upham stays behind with their gear and the squad rushes the nest.
Wade is hit several times in the chest and is bleeding to death. One of the Germans is still alive and the squad rushes to him and beats him. Miller is unsure of what to do with the live German and orders that he dig graves for Wade and the two GIs they saw in the field. When Upham protests that prisoners aren't to be treated like slaves, Miller orders Upham to help the German in his task. The men prepare to execute a surrendered German soldier in revenge, but Upham intervenes, arguing that they should follow the rules of war.
Miller releases the soldier, nicknamed "Steamboat Willie", ordering that he surrender to the next Allied patrol. Reiben is disgusted & wants to desert. Miller defuses the situation by revealing his civilian background as a teacher and baseball coach, which he had always refused to disclose. Miller muses that people often guessed his career before he became a soldier, while his men could not, implying that war has changed him, and worries whether he is still the man he was and whether his wife will recognize him. In Ramelle, Miller's squad is shown the bridge that Ryan and his comrades are guarding. Their commanding officer had been killed a few days before. Miller tells Ryan that his brothers are dead and that he's been given a ticket home. Ryan is devastated by the news of his family but refuses to leave, saying that it's his duty to stay with his unit and defend the bridge. Nothing Miller can say will change Ryan's mind. Miller and Horvath contemplate the serious nature of Ryan's refusal, and they decide to stay and help the unit in their defense of the bridge. Horvath convinces Miller that saving Ryan might be the only truly decent thing they can accomplish during the war. Miller takes command of Ryan's group as the only officer present and prepares the soldiers for a German assault.
Miller creates a strategy that will for any German tanks up the main street of Ramelle where the rubble creates an narrow alley that will channel any individual German troops into a bottleneck, making them easier targets. Miller has several men give up their socks to stuff with Composition B explosives they've spared from the demolition set up to destroy the bridge. They will be used to blast the treads off any tank. Upham, now accepted by the jaded men of the squad, is given ammunition duty, running ammo belts to the two Browning machine gun positions manned by Mellish and Jackson. Jackson is given a perch in a high church tower. Reiben will ride on a German half-track motorcycle which will lure the German unit into the bottleneck. The squad feels the ground beginning to rumble, indicating that the German column has arrived. Jackson signals that there are two Panzer tanks, and two Tiger I tanks. There are also at least 50 German troops. One of the Tiger tanks proceeds down the main street, where the German troops following it are cut down by mines planted along the sides. Two men plant the Comp B bombs on the wheels of the Tiger, blasting it's tread apart and stopping it immediately. Ryan and Miller's squads open fire, and shift positions several times during the battle. Though they take the Germans by surprise at the beginning, several of the men are killed. Jackson is discovered in his perch and is hit by tank fire. Mellish is trapped in a room where a German soldier overpowers him in hand-to-hand combat and slowly drives a bayonet into Mellish's chest. Outside the room, Cpl. Upham sits, frozen with terror, unable to move to rescue Mellish. After the German soldier is finished with Mellish, he marches out, indifferent to Upham. Several more American men are killed when the Germans open fire with a 20-millimeter anti-aircraft flak cannon. Reiben is able to flank the cannon and takes out its operators. Sgt. Horvath is hit non-fatally but grabs Upham and retreats when Miller orders everyone to cross the bridge to their "Alamo" position, where they'll make their last stand. The surviving Tiger tank follows and seems unstoppable when Horvath fires several bazooka rockets at it. Horvath is hit in the chest while retreating and dies a few minutes later. Miller prepares the detonator to destroy the bridge when a shell from the Tiger hits the building behind him, blowing the device out of his hands. He staggers across the bridge to retrieve it and is shot in the chest by the same German soldier he'd set free at the radar station. Miller falls, unable to continue. He draws his .45 pistol and begins to shoot vainly at the Tiger tank, which has begun to cross the bridge. After a few shots, the tank impossibly exploded and a small squadron of P-51 Mustang fighters suddenly zoom into view, having bombed the tank and several enemy targets. Reiben and Ryan rush to Miller's side and call for a medic. Upham, still on the other side of the bridge and undetected near an enemy squad takes the squad prisoner. One of them is the man who shot Miller. The man recognizes Upham and tells his fellow soldiers he knows him. After a few silent moments, Upham shoots the man dead in retaliation for shooting the man who previously spared his life. He orders the rest of the prisoners to leave the scene. As Miller lays dying, Ryan remarks that the planes are "tank busters." Miller calls them "Angels on our shoulders." He beckons Ryan closer and tells him "Earn this. Earn it." As we hear George Marshall's voice reading a passage from Lincoln's letter, James' face ages over 50 years to the present day. Decades later, an elderly Ryan and his family visit Miller's grave at the Normandy Cemetery. Ryan expresses that he remembers Miller's words every day, lived his life the best he could, and hopes he has earned their sacrifices.