movieId: 6888
title: Scary Movie 3
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0306047/
ratingValue: 
directors: David Zucker
actors: Pamela Anderson, Jenny McCarthy-Wahlberg, Marny Eng, Charlie Sheen, Simon Rex, Jianna Ballard, Jeremy Piven, Anna Faris, Timothy Stack, Elaine Klimaszewski

synopsis:
The film's plot is introduced by two girls, Katie (Jenny McCarthy) and Becca (Pamela Anderson), meeting a gruesome supernatural demise seven days after having watched a cursed videotape, and Katie and Becca die after the TV remotely turns on. In a farm outside Washington D.C., widowed farmer and former reverend Tom Logan (Charlie Sheen) and his clumsy and easily discouraged brother George (Simon Rex) are walking down their farm, only to discover a crop circle in the middle of their fields. The "circle" actually composes a sign shaped like an arrow pointing at the Logan house which reads in English: "ATTACK HERE". Since the events of the previous film, the gang have all gone their separate ways. In Washington, Cindy Campbell (Anna Faris), now an anchorwoman, reveals the crop circle occurrence on the news, and afterwards has an argument with her boss, who only wants stories featuring sex, violence and the weather. She then goes to pick up her para-normally endowed nephew Cody (Drew Mikuska) from school, where her best friend and former classmate Brenda Meeks (Regina Hall) now works as a teacher, no longer dating Ray Wilkins (originally Shawn Wayans). George Logan arrives to pick up his niece, Sue, Tom's daughter, who is in the same class. George and Cindy take an instant liking to each other, and he invites Cindy and Brenda to a rap-battle with his rapper friends Mahalik (Anthony Anderson) and CJ (Kevin Hart). At the show, the rap-battles are on, with Simon Cowell as the judge, who is saying to the show to be dreadful. Mahalik and CJ blast him. Later that evening, George proves actually quite successful, but due to some unintentional racist blunders, he gets thrown out. Following the battle, Brenda asks Cindy to keep her company, since she has watched the cursed videotape herself. After playing several pranks on Cindy, she goes to watch television, and is killed by the Undead girl, Tabitha (Marny Eng), who emerges from her television set. George receives a phone call being informed about the death and Tom meets with Sayaman who apologizes for all mistakes including the accident involving himself and Tom's wife Annie (Denise Richards), a short flashback is also shown. During Brenda's wake, George and Mahalik, due to a misunderstanding, wreak havoc on Brenda's corpse in an attempt to bring her back to life. Cindy decides to watch the tape for herself and also receives the fateful message. She calls George, CJ and Mahalik for help. CJ comments that his Aunt Shaneequa, might be able to help Cindy. Aunt Shaneequa (Queen Latifah), who turns out to be The Oracle, and her husband Orpheus (Eddie Griffin) agree to watch a segment of the tape. Shaneequa discovers the hidden image of a lighthouse, which she claims Cindy must find to solve the mystery. But when Cindy returns home, she finds to her horror that Cody has watched the tape, condemning him to certain death. Back at work, Cindy browses through various pictures of lighthouses, before finding the one depicted on the tape. Desperate to save Cody's life, Cindy tries to warn the population by typing a message into the station anchor's teleprompter, but only part of her message gets through before her boss and a janitor interrupt her. Among those who take her message seriously are the Logans, who have an encounter with an alien disguised as Michael Jackson, and President Baxter Harris (Leslie Nielsen), who personally visits the farm to investigate the crop circles. With no further resources, Cindy ventures to the lighthouse, where she encounters The Architect (George Carlin). The loquacious (and lecherous) old man explains the story behind the killer tape. Tabitha was his evil adopted daughter, whom his wife drowned in the family farm's well, but not before she imprinted her evil upon the tape. Unfortunately, he mistook the evil tape for a copy of Pootie Tang and returned it to Blockbuster instead, unleashing the curse upon the world. Upon returning home, Cindy discovers that her station has been broadcasting the same tape for hours, dooming many people to death, and in addition, there have been various sightings of aliens descending upon Earth. Worse, Cody has gone missing. Cindy manages to track him back to the Logan farm, where he has taken refuge with George. Tom orders everybody into the basement for safety, as he, George and Mahalik go outside to fight off the extraterrestrials. The aliens (voiced by Tom Kenny) arrive but reveal that they are in fact friendly (despite their unusual customs), and have come to Earth to stop Tabitha, since they accidentally watched the tape on a broadcast they had intercepted, thinking it was Pootie Tang. In the basement, Cindy realizes that a scene from the tape matches the farm's cellar, and underneath the floor she uncovers the well where Tabitha was drowned. Suddenly, Tabitha appears behind her. A short fight ensues, during which Tabitha takes Cody hostage. Cindy and George appeal to her, offering her a place in their family. Tabitha accepts, but subsequently refuses and brandishes a AK-47. She fires at Cindy and George but is accidentally knocked back into the well by President Harris. The aliens leave in peace, and Cindy and George get married. Leaving for their honeymoon, they realize they forget to take Cody with them, and the boy gets knocked over by a car while chasing them down the road.