movieId: 7396
title: Scenes from a Marriage (TV Mini Series 1973)
year: 1973
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0070644/
ratingValue: 
directors: 
actors: Liv Ullmann, Erland Josephson, Gunnel Lindblom, Bibi Andersson, Jan Malmsjö, Wenche Foss, Bertil Norström, Anita Wall, Rossana Mariano

synopsis:
Episode 1: "Innocence and Panic"
The series begins with Johan and Marianne being interviewed on camera about their seemingly happy and stable marriage. As they speak to the camera crew, we learn that Johan is a successful academic and Marianne is a divorce lawyer. However, when the camera is turned off, we see that their relationship is not as perfect as it appears. Johan reveals that he has been unfaithful, and Marianne is devastated. Episode 2: "The Art of Sweeping Things Under the Rug"
Johan and Marianne attend a dinner party with several of their friends, including a married couple who are having marital problems. As they listen to their friends' troubles, Johan and Marianne reflect on their own relationship and the secrets they keep from each other. After the party, Johan confesses to Marianne that he is in love with another woman. Episode 3: "Paula"
Johan leaves Marianne and begins a new relationship with Paula, a much younger woman. Marianne is devastated and struggles to come to terms with Johan's infidelity. She seeks solace in her work and begins to question her own values and beliefs. Episode 4: "The Vale of Tears"
Johan and Paula break up, and Johan returns to Marianne. However, his behavior becomes increasingly erratic and abusive. He becomes physically violent towards Marianne and threatens her with a knife. Despite this, Marianne is unable to let go of her feelings for Johan and stays with him. Episode 5: "The Illiterates"
Johan and Marianne face new challenges in their relationship when Marianne becomes ill and Johan is forced to take care of her. As they spend more time together, they confront the shortcomings of their marriage and the ways in which they have failed each other. Episode 6: "In the Middle of the Night in a Dark House Somewhere in the World"
Johan and Marianne have separated and are living apart from each other. They meet again after several months, and their conversation suggests that they have both moved on from their relationship and are starting to rebuild their lives.