movieId: 3252
title: Scent of a Woman
year: 1992
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0105323/
ratingValue: 
directors: Martin Brest
actors: Al Pacino, Chris O'Donnell, James Rebhorn, Gabrielle Anwar, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Richard Venture, Bradley Whitford, Rochelle Oliver, Margaret Eginton, Tom Riis Farrell

synopsis:
Charlie Simms (Chris O'Donnell) is a student at an exclusive New England prep school called Baird. Unlike most of his peers, Charlie wasn't born to a wealthy family. Charlie comes from Oregon and his stepfather and mother run a grocery store together. Charlie won a Young America merit scholarship to attend Baird. To pay for a flight home for Christmas, Charlie accepts a temporary job over Thanksgiving weekend looking after a retired Army Ranger Lieutenant Colonel Frank Slade (Al Pacino). Charlie meets Frank, a highly decorated, blind Vietnam War veteran who has become an alcoholic. Frank served the armed forces for 26 years.
Frank lives with his niece Karen Rossi (Sally Murphy) and her husband Donny (Michael Santoro), who are going away for a Thanksgiving weekend and hence need a caretaker for Frank.
Frank was at an old age home, but didn't like it there, so Karen took her in. Karen is paying Charlie $300 for the weekend, even though Frank is livid at everything Charlie says. Charlie and George Willis, Jr. (Philip Seymour Hoffman), another student at the preparatory school, bear witness to several students setting up a prank for the school's headmaster Trask (James Rebhorn). The students (Harry (Nicholas Sadler), Trent (Todd Louiso) and Jimmy) were mocking a new Jaguar given to Trask by the school board. They install a paint bag over Trask's parking spot at night, and when Trask parks his car there in the morning, they blow up the paint bag to ruin the Jaguar as well as Trask's suit.
Mrs Hunsaker (June Squibb) had seen George and Charlie at night, who distracted her so she couldn't properly look at the pranksters. Following the prank, Trask presses Charlie and George to divulge the names of the perpetrators. When Charlie refuses to talk, he privately threatens Charlie with withdrawing the recommendation that he has already drafted (but not yet sent) that Charlie be accepted by Harvard University. Trask schedules a meeting of the school disciplinary committee to take place on the Monday after the Thanksgiving weekend.
Charlie continues to remain silent but appears conflicted. George tells Charlie to stick with the group and not to squeal on fellow students. Shortly after Charlie arrives, Frank unexpectedly whisks Charlie off on a trip to New York City. Frank reserves a room at the Waldorf-Astoria. During dinner in the Oak Room at the Plaza Hotel, Frank reveals that the goals of his trip are to stay at a luxurious hotel, enjoy good food and wine, visit his older brother, and have sex with a "terrific" woman. Afterward, he intends to die by suicide. Charlie is taken aback and doesn't know if Frank is serious. They pay an uninvited surprise visit to Frank's brother's home for Thanksgiving dinner. Frank is an unpleasant surprise for the family, as he deliberately provokes everyone and the night ends in acrimony. Frank ends up in a confrontation with his nephew Randy (Bradley Whitford), who reveals that Frank wasn't blinded heroically in combat, but rather by grandstanding by juggling live grenades for a group of younger officers. As they return to New York, Charlie tells Frank about his complications at school. Frank advises Charlie to inform on his classmates and go to Harvard, warning him that George will probably be pressured into not maintaining silence. Later at a restaurant, Charlie and Frank observe Donna (Gabrielle Anwar), a beautiful young woman waiting for her date. Although blind, Frank leads Donna in a spectacular tango ("Por Una Cabeza") on the dance floor. That night, Frank hires an escort. Deeply despondent the next morning, Frank responds to Charlie's suggestion that they test drive a Ferrari. A former Ferrari owner, Frank talks the salesman into letting them take a convertible for a test ride. Charlie lets Frank drive the car and Frank begins speeding, attracting the attention of a police officer (Ron Eldard), who Frank manages to appease without giving away his blindness. After returning the car, Frank again becomes despondent. He jaywalks into rushing traffic on Park Avenue and narrowly avoids being struck by multiple cars. When they return to the hotel, Frank sends Charlie to buy cigars.
Charlie initially leaves the room but quickly becomes suspicious. Charlie leaves but becomes suspicious and returns to find Frank donning his dress uniform, preparing to end his life with his service pistol. Frank backs down after Charlie convinces him that he has much to live for and should courageously face his circumstances. The two return to New England. At school, Charlie and George are subjected to a formal inquiry in front of the student body and the student/faculty disciplinary committee. As headmaster Trask is opening the proceedings, Frank unexpectedly returns to the school, joining Charlie on the auditorium stage for support. For his defense, George has enlisted the help of his wealthy father, and divulges the names of the perpetrators, qualifying that his vision wasn't clear. When pressed for more details, George passes the burden to Charlie. Although struggling with his decision, Charlie gives no information, so Trask recommends Charlie's expulsion. At this, Frank can't contain himself and launches into a passionate speech defending Charlie and calling out the perpetrators for not coming forward, George for selling out his friends, Trask for his breech of ethics and the school for not living up to its standards. He tells them that Charlie has shown integrity in his actions and for the committee to not expel him because this is what great leaders are made of and he will make them proud in the future. The disciplinary committee decides to place the students named by George on probation, and to give George neither recognition nor commendation for his testimony. They excuse Charlie from any punishment to loud applause from the student body. As Charlie escorts Frank to his limo, a female political science teacher Christine Downes (Frances Conroy), who was part of the disciplinary committee approaches Frank, commending him for his speech. Seeing a spark between them, Charlie tells the teacher that Frank served on President Lyndon Johnson's staff. A romantic prospect is hinted between Frank and the teacher as they part ways.
Charlie takes Frank home, where they part ways. The colonel walks towards his house and greets his niece's young children happily.