movieId: 5419
title: Scooby-Doo
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0267913/
ratingValue: 
directors: Raja Gosnell
actors: Freddie Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Matthew Lillard, Linda Cardellini, Rowan Atkinson, Isla Fisher, Miguel A. Núñez Jr., Steven Grives, Charles Stan Frazier, Craig Bullock

synopsis:
After Mystery, Inc. solves the mystery of the Luna Ghost at a toy factory, long-brewing friction between Fred, (Freddie Prinze Jr.) a self-obsessed glory hog; Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar), who has become sick of being the one who always gets captured and has to act to be the damsel in distress; and Velma (Linda Cardellini), from whom Fred regularly steals credit for her plans. Even in case of the Luna ghost, Velma laid out a careful plan, but the gang simply lacked the discipline to follow it, and in the end the ghost was only captured due to sheer luck on part of Scooby and Shaggy and their crazy antics. Fred reveals that Luna was never a ghost, but was in fact Old man Smithers, who was infatuated with Daphne.
This causes the gang to argue and subsequently disband, abandoning a dismayed Scooby and Shaggy (Matthew Lillard) and leaving them to care for the gang's van, the Mystery Machine. Two years later, they are all invited to solve a mystery on a horror-themed tropical resort named "Spooky Island" at the behest of owner Emile Mondavarious (Rowan Atkinson), who believes the visiting tourists have fallen under a demonic curse. The island is visiting by thousands of vacation hungry teenagers every year. When they arrive, they are chaotic and undisciplined, but when they depart, they are all prim and proper and not like teenagers at all. While Shaggy and Scooby hope this will bring the gang back together, Velma, Fred and Daphne are all intent on solving the mystery on their own.
Fred has been on the talk tour with his new book. Velma has been working for NASA developing hydro powered missile defense systems. Daphne is a black belt now and has transformed her body into a dangerous weapon.
Velma attends a ritualistic performance given by actor N'Goo Tuana (Steven Grieves) and his henchman, famous Luchador Zarkos (Sam Greco). N'Goo claims ancient demons once ruled the island but have been plotting revenge ever since they were displaced by the resort 10 years ago.
Meanwhile, Shaggy falls for a girl named Mary Jane (Isla Fisher) who is allergic to dogs, distancing himself from Scooby in the process. Mary has a very distinctive sneeze when she comes near Scooby.
Scooby is lured into the forest by a stranger with a promise of hamburgers, where he is attacked by a demon. But Scooby manages to escape by defeating the demon. The gang are all led separately to the resort's haunted house ride. After some slight arguments between Fred, Daphne, and Velma, they all decide to get along for the time being in order to split up and search for clues.
Hidden demons inside the haunted house activate the rides, and try to kill the gang, but the gang manages to survive. Fred accidentally finds the control room when he falls through a glass window and turns off the rides.
Fred and Velma discover a film that educates inhuman creatures about human culture, while Daphne discovers a pyramid-shaped artifact called the "Daemon Ritus". Velma concludes that the haunted house is a brainwashing facility for a secret cult. Later, at the resort's hotel, Fred, Velma and Mondavarious are kidnapped and later possessed by the island's demons. Mary Jane calls the Coast Guard for help, but the officers of the Coast Guard are also "possessed" humans and ignore the call from Mary.
Shaggy, Mary and Daphne encounter the possessed Fred, who have no recollection of demons or being kidnapped. Fred and the demons attack the remaining gang.
Scooby and Shaggy escape on Quad bikes, and encounter Mary along the way, whom Shaggy picks up. Scooby finds out that Mary is a demon when she is riding the bike behind Shaggy.
The next day, after trying and failing to tell Shaggy that Mary Jane is secretly a demon in disguise, the two have a falling-out that results in Scooby-Doo going missing as well; Zarkos steals back the Daemon Ritus from Daphne, who is also captured and possessed. Shaggy goes in search of his friends underground and finds a vat of protoplasm containing the souls of all those possessed. He finds and frees the souls of Daphne, Fred and Velma. The souls return to their bodies, where the demons are thrown out of the body. They then discover that sunlight destroys the demons. Velma concludes that the demons require the human bodies to survive in sunlight. A voodoo priest (Miguel A. Nunez Jr.) who lives on the island informs the gang the demons are to perform their "Darpokalypse" Ritual, which will see them rule the world for ten thousand years if a pure soul is sacrificed in the Daemon Ritus. The gang realizes that the pure soul is Scooby-Doo, whom Mondavarious brought to Spooky Island for this true reason. Finally realizing their mistake, Fred, Daphne, and Velma decide to put aside their differences for good and work together with Shaggy to save Scooby and the world. The gang infiltrate the ritual, where Mondavarious is foiled in sacrificing Scooby's soul by Shaggy. Mondavarious is then revealed to be a robot controlled by Scooby's estranged nephew Scrappy-Doo (Scott Innes), whom the gang abandoned long ago after his increasingly power-hungry and ego-maniacal nature got out of control.
Absorbing the tourists' souls, Scrappy transforms into a huge monster and tries to kill the gang. Daphne knocks Zarkos into the vat, tipping it over and returning most of the other souls to their bodies, releasing the demons who are then promptly killed by Daphne reflecting sunlight through a skull-shaped disco ball.
Shaggy frees the rest of the souls, reversing Scrappy's transformation in the process and finds the real Mondavarious imprisoned, having been captured by Scrappy so he could pose as his double. Scrappy and his henchmen are all arrested and Mystery, Inc. reunites.