movieId: 6572
title: Scorched
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0286947/
ratingValue: 
directors: Gavin Grazer
actors: Alicia Silverstone, Rachael Leigh Cook, Woody Harrelson, John Cleese, Paulo Costanzo, David Krumholtz, Joshua Leonard, Ivan Sergei, Marcus Thomas, Jeffrey Tambor

synopsis:
Sheila Rilo (Alicia Silverstone) is a bank teller at Desert Savings Bank in a small desert town. Her boyfriend is Rick Becker (Joshua Leonard), the bank manager who was informed by his superiors that he would be fired if the bank's ATMs were to be robbed just one more time. Sheila and Rick have spent several years in an on-again off-again relationship, in which he uses her between other flings. After Sheila pays for most of Rick's education, he leaves her for his tutor. Sheila decides to exact revenge on Rick by robbing the bank (The teller drawers) and getting him fired.
Mark (Ivan Sergei) is a fireman who was in the diner when Rick broke up with Shelia. He follows Sheila out and consoles her. Sheila is charmed by Mark, and they start seeing each other. The bank has 4 places where it keeps money 1. $10,000 in each teller drawer 2. $40,000 in each ATM machine 3. $250,000 in the mini vault 4. The safety deposit boxes: unaccounted On the same night, Stuart "Stu" Stein (Paulo Costanzo) and Jason "Woods" Valley (Woody Harrelson), two other tellers from the same bank, have also decided to rob the bank. Stuart's plan is to steal $250,000 from the mini vault in the bank and bet the entire amount on one game of roulette in Las Vegas.
Stuart, who is desperate for excitement in his life, is following the suggestion of his friend Max (David Krumholtz), even though the intelligent Stuart usually talks Max out of his hare-brained get-rich-quick schemes (renting babies to bachelors, who will use them to score chicks). Jason is a nature lover who lives with an orphaned duck named George. He was promoted to assistant bank manager, a position with much more responsibility (come early, leave late, open & close the bank, count the tellers, weekly scheduling etc.) but only a $0.55 per hour raise. He feels the bank owes him for years of loyal and underpaid service and he decides to get even by robbing the safety deposit box of a mean-spirited local millionaire, Charles Merchant (John Cleese). Merchant, who got rich from making infomercials and selling videotapes on how to get rich quickly on the real estate market, is the person that shot Jason's duck's mother, therefore making easier Jason's decision to rob Merchant's safety deposit box.
Merchant kept his key of the safety deposit box in his dog's collar, while Jason held the other key (common to all safety deposit boxes). Jason is not the only one with a plan for revenge against the local tycoon. A disgruntled clothing store employee, Shmally (Rachael Leigh Cook), takes her revenge against Merchant the same night (she bought the self-help tapes sold by Merchant on TV for $450 and found them useless) by having her friend/roommate Carter (Marcus Thomas) help her throw eggs at Merchant's home. While escaping, they take their bike via the desert and the bike flips on the soft sand, injuring both Shmally and Carter.
Carter, with the help of Shmally, is in the process of cleaning himself up for a job interview at Desert Savings Bank. He recently quit his job at the ice cream parlor, when the manager yelled at him for wasting too much ice cream on customers. Carter and Stuart are friends and that's how Carter came to know about the opening at the bank.
He is hired and arrives at the bank on Monday morning for his first day, only to be turned away by Rick as the bank has just been robbed and Rick knows that this will be the end for him. Ultimately, all three bank employees are successful in their individual robberies, with each being completely unaware of the other's plans. First Max and Stuart clean out the mini vault on Friday, when Rick was out for coffee, Sheila was in the storage vault, and Jason was in the safety deposit box with Merchant. Sheila makes a copy of the key to the storage vault. While Jason breaks into Merchant's mansion to steal the Safety deposit box key from his dog. The dog attacks Jason, who has to hide inside Merchant's pantry, when Merchant comes back home. But Shmally's egg attack lures Merchant and dog away (as they chase them) and allows Jason to escape after he finds the key in the water fountain. On Saturday, Stuart and Max reach Las Vegas to bet their $250K on roulette. Stuart goes flip flop on his plan. Meanwhile Sheila takes Mark's help to rob the ATM machine inside the bank on Saturday night. She and Mark were waiting outside the bank, when Merchant came by with his gun, looking for Shmally, forcing Sheila and Mark to hide inside the bank.
Its Sunday. Stuart is still undecided. Merchant notices that the safety deposit box key is missing from his dog's collar. Shmally and Carter reach home and Shmally drives Carter for his interview at the bank HQ office at 8 30 am. In the morning, Jason reaches the bank, while Sheila and Mark are sleeping inside. Sheila wakes up and steals the $40K from the ATM machine. Jason steals Merchant's safety deposit box. Stuart bets on black and doubles his money. Carter aces his interview.
Stuart returns to the bank on Monday morning and replaces the $250K inside the mini-vault. After Rick is informed of his firing, he approaches each of them to offer them the job as bank manager. One by one they quit, leaving Rick to offer employment to Carter as he leaves the bank.
In an epilogue, we learn that Carter worked his way up to the assistant manager position at the bank, Max and Stu moved to Las Vegas, Jason traveled south and was never seen again, and Sheila enrolled at UCLA.