movieId: 1717
title: Scream 2
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120082/
ratingValue: 
directors: Wes Craven
actors: Jada Pinkett Smith, Omar Epps, Paulette Patterson, Rasila Schroeder, Heather Graham, Roger Jackson, Peter Deming, Molly Gross, Rebecca McFarland, Neve Campbell

synopsis:
While attending a preview of the film Stab, a film within a film based on the Woodsboro murders depicted in Scream, two students at Windsor College, Maureen Evans (Jada Pinkett) and Phil Stevens (Omar Epps) are killed by Ghostface. Before entering the auditorium, the entire audience is given Ghostface masks and as such everybody looked exactly the same. The crowd was already in a frenzy and some of the audience also enacted slashing scenes of the movie using fake knives. Phil is stabbed through the ear in a bathroom stall while trying to listen closely to strange whimpering noises. The killer, wearing a Ghostface costume, returns to the screening and sits beside Maureen, before mortally stabbing her.
At first the audience believe her to be part of the raucous acting out, until she falls dead in front of the cinema screen. The following day, the news media, including local journalist Debbie Salt (Laurie Metcalf), descend on Windsor College, where Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) now studies alongside fellow Woodsboro survivor Randy (Jamie Kennedy), her boyfriend Derek (Jerry O'Connell), Derek's best friend Mickey (Timothy Olyphant), and her best friend Hallie (Elise Neal). Sidney receives prank calls but has now installed a number identification device on her landline. She is oblivious to the recent killings until someone instructs her to watch the news. Sidney meets Randy and says that the murders are starting again, but Randy is not convinced and says that a lot of crimes are committed at the movie theaters. Two other Woodsboro survivors arrive at the campus: officer Dewey Riley (David Arquette) who comes to help Sidney, and reporter Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox) to cover the case. Dewey says that if somebody is repeating the Woodsboro murders then Sidney would probably already know them.
Gale is only looking for publicity. She refuses to take any responsibility for the movie Stab, based on her book, for being the inspiration for the new murders. Yet, she demands answers from local police about what they are doing to prevent further murders.
Dewey calls Gale a money-hungry, fame-seeking, mediocre writer with no empathy for the people whose lives she ruins to feed her own career. Gale and her new cameraman, Joel Jones (Duane Martin) tries to stage a confrontation between Sidney and Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber), who is attempting to gain fame from his exoneration for the murder of Sidney's mother. Sidney angrily hits Gale.
Gale had promised Cotton 10 minutes of national coverage, but Gale refuses to indulge Cotton till she gets her interview with Sidney. Later that night, Sidney unwillingly goes to a party with Hallie at the sorority house Delta Lambda Zeta. At Omega Beta Zeta, another nearby sorority house, Ghostface kills fellow student Cici (Sarah Michelle Gellar) in a similar way to how Casey was murdered in the events at Woodsboro. After the party-goers leave to observe Cici's crime scene, Ghostface enters Delta Lambda Zeta and attacks Sidney, though Derek intervenes. The killer injures Derek, but Dewey and the police arrive, causing the killer to flee. The next day, Gale discusses the case with the police. Upon realizing that Cici's real name is Casey, she concludes that the killer is a copycat who targets students who share the same names as the Woodsboro murder victims. Randy theorizes that the killer is likely someone Sidney knows and is patterning the homicides after a movie sequel. While Gale is talking to Dewey and Randy on the campus lawn, she receives a call from Ghostface hinting that he is watching them. They search for him, but Randy, who tries to keep the killer on the phone, is dragged into Gale's broadcast van and stabbed to death. Shortly after, Joel, fearing he will be targeted next, skips town. As night falls over the campus, Dewey and Gale go to a building to review tapes of footage shot by Joel, hoping to spot the killer in the vicinity of the previous crime scenes, but Ghostface attacks them, stabbing Dewey. Gale hides and eventually escapes. In the wake of the escalating murders, two officers prepare to take Sidney and Hallie to safety, but the killer ambushes them and kills the two officers. In the ensuing struggle, Ghostface is knocked unconscious. Sidney insists on unmasking him, while Hallie insists, they escape. Before they can see his face, Ghostface wakes up and kills Hallie. Sidney flees. Drawn to music playing in the campus theatre while seeking safety, Sidney finds Derek in the auditorium tied to a cross from an earlier fraternity hazing ritual. Ghostface arrives, revealing himself as Mickey, and shoots Derek, killing him.
Mickey details his plan to be caught and become famous in the ensuing trial and media spectacle. He then announces his accomplice, Debbie Salt, who arrives holding Gale at gun point. Sidney recognizes that Salt is actually Billy Loomis's mother, seeking revenge for her son's death. Mrs. Loomis betrays Mickey and shoots him affirming that she only used Mickey to frame him for their killing spree. Mickey fires his gun before collapsing, wounding Gale, who falls offstage. Nancy discloses she is seeking revenge against Sidney for killing Billy and that she murdered Randy in Joel's news van for slandering her son's name. However, Sidney points out the hypocrisy of Nancy's motives, considering that her abandonment fueled Billy's psychotic tendencies. The pair fight until Cotton appears and holds them at gunpoint. Nancy attempts to manipulate Cotton into murdering Sidney, reminding him that her testimony got him arrested. Much to Nancy's shock, he instead chooses to shoot her in exchange for an interview with Sidney and Diane Sawyer. As Sidney, Cotton, and a recovered Gale glance over Nancy's body, Mickey suddenly resurfaces but is shot to death by Gale and Sidney. Sidney then shoots Nancy in the head to ensure her death. When the police arrive, Dewey is revealed to be alive and Gale climbs into the ambulance with him rather than taking the opportunity to report to the returning Joel. Sidney then instructs the press to direct questions to Cotton to remove attention from herself and reward Cotton for helping her.