movieId: 2211
title: Secret Agent
year: 1936
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0028231/
ratingValue: 
directors: Alfred Hitchcock
actors: John Gielgud, Peter Lorre, Madeleine Carroll, Robert Young, Percy Marmont, Florence Kahn, Charles Carson, Lilli Palmer, Denys Blakelock, Sebastian Cabot

synopsis:
It is May 10, 1916, London, after the beginning of the First World War. A somber group files past a casket surrounded by candles. The butler sees everyone out, locks the door, then takes down the casket, which is empty. At a British intelligence office in the middle of an air raid, an officer in uniform enters with a newspaper that seems to announce his own death. The officer, a writer by profession ( John Gielgud ), is given false passports with the name Ashenden and introduced to an assistant ( Peter Lorre , who goes by the nickname General), and is told to proceed in disguise to Switzerland, Hotel Excelsior, and await further instructions. The instructions are to identify a German undercover agent, who is at the hotel and about to leave Switzerland for Istanbul, and to prevent the German agent from reaching his destination by any means necessary. In Switzerland an old man buys a bar of chocolate, opens it, and reads a hidden message saying that a British spy is expected to arrive at the Hotel Excelsior. Ashenden checks into the hotel and learns that "Mrs Ashenden" ( Madeleine Carroll ) had arrived the day before. He goes to the rooms reserved for the couple and finds Mrs Ashenden in conversation with an American, Mr Robert Marvin ( Robert Young ), who has been insinuating himself to her. Mr Marvin leaves, and the fake Ashenden couple have their initial conversations to get acquainted. When The General comes in, he and Ashenden head for a church in Langenthal to meet its organist, a supposed double agent, to get more information; however, they find the organist dead at the organ, with a special type of torn-away button in his fist. Back at the hotel they learn that Mrs Ashenden has gone with another gentleman (Marvin) to the casino. Soon after the four meet up, Ashenden and The General are surprised when the torn button appears to come from the coat sleeve of a British tourist whom Ashenden met earlier at the hotel, supposedly identifying the tourist as the killer of the organist. The group, including Marvin, has dinner at the same table and meets the German wife of the British tourist, who says this trip is the first time she has ever been out of Germany. Ashenden and The General improvise a heated bet over which of them is a better mountain hiker. They convince the British tourist (Mr Caypor) to go up a nearby mountain the next day as their guide, where they plan to murder him. Mrs Ashenden, dancing with Ashenden, expresses excitement about finishing off Mr Caypor, but Ashenden is repulsed. Ashenden has misgivings in participating in a murder, and turns away from the climb, but The General continues up the mountain and pushes Mr Caypor off a cliff. Simultaneously, Caypor's dog, back home with Mrs Caypor, Mrs Ashenden, and Marvin howls woefully, and it is clear that tragedy has befallen its master. Back at the hotel, word comes that they have identified the wrong man and, thus, murdered an innocent Briton. The General laughs this off, but it causes consternation and conflict between the Ashendens, he taking the view that he was on an assignment in wartime, she that the murder of an innocent is too high a price to pay even in wartime. This moral conflict is a continuing source of much anguish for them both, who otherwise were much attracted to each other. While the Ashendens struggle to come to terms with their deed, The General has snooped around and found that the chocolate factory is a center for spy messages. He talks Ashenden into going there to try to get more information from the boyfriend of one of the hotel maids, who has a job at the factory. Mrs Ashenden, feeling distraught that she's lost Mr Ashenden to duty, decides to resign alone from her spy assignment and separate herself from her fake husband. Having no special place to go, she decides to join Marvin on the next leg of his train trip. At the chocolate factory Ashenden and The General discover they've been fingered as British spies. To escape the summoned police, they pull a fire alarm to create chaos, succeed in evading arrest, and receive a telegram that identifies Marvin as the agent. Phoning the hotel, they find Mrs Ashenden has gone, bringing suspicion that she's a double agent. They manage to get to the train station and warn Mrs Ashenden that Marvin is their target. She agrees to resume her spy duties by pretending to be romantically interested in Marvin. They get on a train headed for a country at war against Britain. As they finally confront Marvin in a compartment, where he admits being a German agent, British planes attack the train, producing a train wreck. Marvin is mortally wounded, The General is shot dead, and Mr and Mrs Ashenden, now in love with each other, are able to return to England without having had to physically murder anyone. A brief epilogue follows, showing the triumph of British forces in the Eastern (Turkish) front