movieId: 8967
title: Seed of Chucky
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0387575/
ratingValue: 
directors: Don Mancini
actors: Jennifer Tilly, Brad Dourif, Billy Boyd, Redman, Hannah Spearritt, John Waters, Keith-Lee Castle, Steve West, Tony Gardner, Jason Flemyng

synopsis:
The kind and gender-neutral living doll child of Chucky and Tiffany is being held captive by "Psychs," a violent British ventriloquist who takes advantage of him for his performance, six years after the events of the previous movie. The doll has been derisively dubbed "Shitface" by Psychs, who also frequently abuses him. Shitface is a calm person, but he has violent murderous nightmares. Shitface watches a TV teaser for Jennifer Tilly's upcoming movie Chucky Goes Psycho, which shows Tiffany and Chucky dolls restored from their original parts. being aware that he is their child. Shitface manages to get away from Psychs and finds the Chucky and Tiffany dolls in a Hollywood prop room. Shitface resurrects them with a voodoo amulet called the Heart of Damballa. Tiffany is ecstatic to have a child, but Chucky is shocked. Chickle, perplexed by their child's gender ambiguity-his body lacks genitalia-renames Shitface "Glen," while Tiffany renames them "Glenda." A special effects technician is beheaded by Chucky and Tiffany using a wire. Jennifer contacts the police after discovering the decapitated body. Glen/Glenda, Chucky, and Tiffany use her limousine to smuggle themselves into her house. After seeing his parents kill the technician, Glen/Glenda questions them about their motivations. The question surprises Tiffany and Chucky. Feeling responsible as a parent, Tiffany tries to persuade Chucky to stop killing for the sake of their child, but Chucky makes a false promise. In the meantime, Jennifer attempts to land a part as the Virgin Mary in the first feature film directed by rapper Redman. To the dismay of her assistant Joan, she invites him to her house with the intention of luring him into the part. Chucky and Tiffany decide to give their souls to Jennifer and Redman. With the intention of using her child as a host for Glen/Glenda's soul, Tiffany knocks them out and uses a turkey baster to inseminate Jennifer with Chucky's semen. In order to murder Pete Peters, a paparazzo who had been pursuing Jennifer, Chucky takes Glen/Glenda on a covert joyride. Peters is killed when Glen/Glenda unintentionally causes him to fall and get soaked in sulfuric acid. Chucky is thrilled while Glen/Glenda is appalled. When Jennifer awakens, she realizes she is pregnant and assumes Redman is to blame. Redman explains that since he had a vasectomy in the past, this is not possible. Because he does not think pregnant women are attractive enough for his vision, he fires Jennifer from his movie. When Glen and Glenda witness Redman's misogyny, Tiffany becomes furious and guts him. When Jennifer awakens the following morning, the voodoo magic has resulted in a full pregnant belly. To replace Redman, Chucky kidnaps Jennifer and her bereft driver, Stan. Glen and Glenda are two distinct souls in the same body; Glen is a pacifist and Glenda is a psychopath. This is made clear when Jennifer's assistant Joan tries to assist but is killed by Glenda. Both Glen and Glenda can inhabit the twins, a boy and a girl, that Jennifer gives birth to, and Tiffany knows this. But in the midst of the chaos, Chucky has a realization: he no longer longs to become human and has finally come to terms with his life as a living doll. Tiffany is devastated and chooses to break up with Chucky after rejecting him. Chucky is furious and throws a knife at Jennifer to keep Tiffany from leaving him, but Stan leaps to her defense and gives his life. The dolls are forced to leave when the police show up. Jennifer is taken to the hospital in a hurry. Tiffany starts to drug Jennifer and take control of her, but Chucky breaks in and uses an axed to kill Tiffany. Feeling devastated, Glen loses his temper and attacks Chucky, using the axed to hit him. Chucky thinks it is Glenda, but Glen tells him it is him, not his killer twin. Before being beheaded, Chucky commends Glen for his deeds after Glen dismembers him. Jennifer consoles Glen as he sobs after realizing what he has done. After Glen and Glenda transferred their souls into Jennifer's two children's bodies, she is now raising them five years later. At a twins' birthday celebration, a nanny quits because Glenda frightens her. Tiffany successfully transferred her soul into Jennifer's body, which is revealed when Jennifer beats her to death in a fit of rage. As Glen opens a birthday present, Chucky's severed arm suddenly sprang up and seized him.