movieId: 4003
title: She's Having a Baby
year: 1988
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0096094/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Hughes
actors: Kevin Bacon, Elizabeth McGovern, Alec Baldwin, James Ray, Holland Taylor, William Windom, Cathryn Damon, Reba McKinney, Bill Erwin, Paul Gleason

synopsis:
Recent college graduate and aspiring writer Jefferson "Jake" Briggs (Kevin Bacon) sits in front of the church where he is getting married to Kristen "Kristy" Bainbridge (Elizabeth McGovern). Confessing that he is nervous, Jake is reminded by his best friend Davis McDonald (Alec Baldwin) that he has been in love with Kristy since he was sixteen years old. Reassured, Jake marries Kristy in front of friends and family. After their honeymoon, Jake and Kristy move to New Mexico where Jake plans to attend graduate school. However, he becomes frustrated with the program. Kristy attempts to convince him to finish his studies, but Jake quits and they move back to their home town in Illinois. As Jake tries to figure out his future, Kristy's father Russ (William Windom) belittles Jake about his inability to support Kristy and their future family. Jake applies for a job at a Chicago advertising agency and receives an interview. Although his interviewers, Howard (Paul Gleason) and Bill (Dennis Dugan), determine that Jake has lied on his resume, they are impressed by his creative writing skills and hire him.
With the combination of Jake's new job and Kristy's income, they purchase a home in the suburbs. Jake feels burdened by his adult responsibilities, and continues to work on his novel. Two years later, Davis McDonald arrives from New York City with his model girl friend, Erin (Valeri Breiman). Against Kristy's wishes, Jake invites Davis and Erin to stay at the house. Davis tries to convince Jake to move to New York and become a writer. However, Jake says he loves Kristy and needs to stay. As Jake becomes disillusioned with his job, Kristy decides she wants a baby. Without telling Jake, she quits taking her birth control pills. Months later, Kristy does not become pregnant and confesses to Jake about stopping her birth control. Although Jake does not feel ready to be a father, he and Kristy take fertility tests and begin trying for a baby. Some time later, Davis returns to Chicago for his father's funeral and visits Jake and Kristy. Seeing Davis upset, they invite him to stay at the house. As Kristy consoles Davis, he confesses that he has always loved her. However, Kristy loves Jake and tells Davis nothing will ever happen between them. Later, Kristy announces to Jake that she is pregnant. As they prepare for the baby's arrival, Jake continues his writing. When Kristy's contractions begin, Jake rushes her to the hospital. However, complications arise during delivery, and Jake fears losing her and the baby. After a difficult labor, Kristy gives birth to a boy and Jake is overcome with relief. Returning home, he reads his manuscript, 'She's Having A Baby', to Kristy and their newborn son.