movieId: 6536
title: Sinbad: Legend of the Seven Seas
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0165982/
ratingValue: 
directors: Patrick Gilmore, Tim Johnson
actors: Brad Pitt, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Michelle Pfeiffer, Joseph Fiennes, Dennis Haysbert, Timothy West, Adriano Giannini, Raman Hui, Chung Chan

synopsis:
Eris, Goddess of Discord, wishes to ruin the Twelve Cites, currently protected by the magical powers of the Book of Peace. The Book is being transported by ship to a new home, a tower in Syracuse, by Prince Proteus of Syracuse, only son of King Dymas (Timothy West). Sinbad (Brad Pitt) and his pirate crew attempt to steal the magical "Book of Peace" and hold it for ransom as one last job before retiring to Fiji. Sinbad is surprised to see it is being protected while on-board to Syracuse, Sicily by Prince Proteus (Joseph Fiennes) of Syracuse. Proteus was Sinbad's best friend as a child (they have been away for over 10 years now) and he tells him if their friendship ever meant anything to Sinbad, he could prove it. Sinbad tries to steal the book anyway but is prevented when Cetus, a Kraken-like sea-monster, (who was sent from the heavens by the Goddess of Discord, Eris) attacks the ship. Sinbad and Proteus two work together to fight off Cetus and for a moment reaffirm their bond. Just when it seems the beast is defeated, Sinbad is dragged off the ship. Proteus goes to save Sinbad, but he is stopped by his crew. Drawn underwater by Cetus, Sinbad is saved by the beautiful Goddess of Discord, Eris (Michelle Pfeiffer), who offers him any boon he desires in exchange for the Book of Peace. She instructs him to bring the book to Tartarus, her realm, after the book is stolen. Tartarus is the hellish part of the Greco-Roman Underworld, in which the Gods imprisoned the Titans, and where those who offended the Gods, such as Ixion, Tantalus and Sisyphus, undergo eternal punishment. Sinbad's crew includes Kale (Dennis Haysbert), Sinbad's first mate. Rat (Adriano Giannini), the Italian lookout. Luca (Jim Cummings), an elderly member. Jed (Conrad Vernon), a heavily armed member. Jin (Raman Hui), an Asian member who frequently makes bets with Li. Li (Chung Chan), an Asian member. Grum and Chum (Andrew Birch) are the rest. Proteus brings the Book safely to Syracuse. Sinbad and his crew go to Syracuse to steal the Book. At the celebratory feast, which Sinbad and his crew gatecrash, Sinbad is confronted with Marina (Catherine Zeta-Jones), Proteus' fiance, and his own secret love: he leaves abruptly and orders his crew to depart from Syracruse without the book. Anticipating this, Eris impersonates Sinbad and steals the Book herself. Immediate decay and disaster overwhelm Syracuse: Sinbad, arrested, is tried and condemned to death for stealing the Book, despite his tale about Eris. Sinbad is sentenced to death, whereupon Proteus (who demands the right of substitution) sends Sinbad to retrieve the Book instead, placing himself as a hostage. If Sinbad does not return in time, Proteus will be beheaded in Sinbad's place. Proteus' fiance Lady Marina (Catherine Zeta-Jones) goes with Sinbad to make sure that Sinbad succeeds. They have 10 days to steal the book and to bring it back, else Proteus dies. Marina and Proteus were arranged to be married when they were kids, but they are good friends and not in love with each other. Sinbad wants to go to Fiji, as he didn't steal the book. He knows Dymas will not allow Proteus to be executed. When Dymas later engineers Proteus' escape, Proteus refuses.
Marina bribes Sinbad with jewels to make him go to Tartarus for the book. To prevent them from succeeding, Eris sends a group of mythical sirens (at Dragon's teeth entrance), who seduce the men aboard Sinbad's ship with their hypnotic singing voices and tries to persuade them to cast themselves overboard. The Sirens were between two and five monsters, part women and part bird, who lured sailors to their death by their singing. But the sirens have no effect on Marina, who pilots the ship to safety. Due to Marina's inexperience, there is some damage to the ship, about which Sinbad is annoyed. When they go to an island to get some wood to repair the ship, they find that the Island is a giant fish. They hitch a ride on the giant fish to make progress towards Tartarus. They get to Granite Gates. Eris sends a cold spell through it, freezing the water and the ship can't move.
The Goddess of Discord sends a Roc which captures Marina. Sinbad risks his life to rescue Marina. The Roc is a giant bird in Persian mythology, inspired in part by the eggs or even sightings of Aepyornis Maximus, the elephant bird.
Sinbad uses the Roc to break the ice, trap the snowbird inside the granite gates and move the ship forward. Sinbad and Marina talk in a brief moment of peace - Marina reveals that she's always dreamed of a life on the sea, and Sinbad reveals that he distanced himself from Proteus 10 years earlier because he had fallen in love with Marina, whom he knew was engaged to Proteus. So, he left and never looked back. Approaching the gates of Tartarus, Rat sees that these lie beyond the edge of the world, a huge waterfall: Sinbad re-rigs the ships sail to fly it in the up-draft beyond the falls so that he and Martina can swing on a rope through the gates into Tartarus. Eris reveals that her plan was to maneuver Proteus into Sinbad's place (she counted on Sinbad running away), leaving Syracuse without an heir and tumbling into chaos. Eris agrees to surrender the Book of Peace only if Sinbad truthfully tells whether he will return to Syracuse to accept blame and be executed if he does not get the Book. She gives him her word that she will honor the deal, making it unbreakable even for a god. When he answers that he will return, Eris calls him a liar and returns him and Marina to the mortal world. Ashamed, Sinbad admits the Goddess of Discord is right, truly believing deep down that he is a selfish, black-heart liar. Marina begs Sinbad to run away, but Sinbad says that Marina could never love a person who ran from the truth. In Syracuse, the time allotted to Sinbad has elapsed. Proteus readies himself to be beheaded, but at the last minute, Sinbad appears and takes his place. An enraged Eris appears suddenly and saves Sinbad by shattering the executioner's sword to pieces. Sinbad, shocked, realizes that this was still part of her test and that he has beaten her by proving his answer to be true after all. Eris is furious but cannot go back on her word and gives the book to Sinbad. With the true culprit revealed, Sinbad is pardoned for the crime of stealing the book and is now well-respected. With the Book restored to Syracuse, Sinbad and his crew prepare to leave on another voyage, leaving Marina in Syracuse. Proteus sees that Marina has fallen deeply in love with Sinbad and life on the sea and releases her from their engagement, sending her to join Sinbad's ship. Marina surprises Sinbad by revealing her presence on the ship just as it begins to sail, and the two share a kiss. Now together, they and the crew set out on another long voyage as the ship sails into the sunset.