movieId: 3247
title: Sister Act
year: 1992
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0105417/
ratingValue: 
directors: Emile Ardolino
actors: Whoopi Goldberg, Maggie Smith, Harvey Keitel, Bill Nunn, Mary Wickes, Kathy Najimy, Wendy Makkena, Joseph Maher, Richard Portnow, Ellen Albertini Dow

synopsis:
St. Anne's Academy is a California Catholic school in 1968, where a young girl named Deloris Wilson (Isis Carmen Jones) is scolded for wisecracking and disobeying rules. Deloris does not take her studies seriously and greatly embarrasses her nun teachers while showing an affinity for music. Deloris is declared as the most unruly and disobedient girl in school. 24 years later in 1992, Deloris Van Cartier (Whoopi Goldberg) is a lounge singer working in a casino called The Moonlight Lounge, located in Reno, Nevada run by her boyfriend, Vince LaRocca (Harvey Keitel), a mobster. Vince has promised that he would marry Deloris after divorcing his wife but says that now is not the right time to go ahead with it. Deloris is very angry and decides to quit the show.
Deloris' act includes Michelle (Jenifer Lewis) and Tina (Charlotte Crossley). Deloris then receives a shallow gift (an expensive purple mink coat which used to belong to his wife) from Vince and attempts to return it. During this Deloris witnesses Vince executing a chauffeur Ernie (Max Grodenchik) (who went to the police the previous evening and spoke for 3 hours to Lt. Southern). Deloris is stunned and claims that she came to thank Vince for the coat. Vince orders his men Joey (Robert Miranda) and Willy (Richard Portnow) to kill her too. Deloris flees Vince's casino to the local police station where Lieutenant Eddie Souther (Bill Nunn) suggests she stand trial against Vince if he can be arrested, but for now, she should go into witness protection until the time comes. Souther says that it will take at least a couple of months to get a court date. Deloris is taken to St. Katherine's Roman Catholic Church in a seedy run-down neighborhood of San Francisco, where Souther suggests she disguise herself as a nun. Deloris is livid, but Souther says that Vince has a contract on her for $100,000 and a convent is the last place he would look.
Both Deloris and the Reverend Mother (Maggie Smith) object but are convinced by Souther and Monsignor O'Hara (Joseph Maher) to go ahead with it with the added deal that the police will pay the failing convent a good sum of money. Reverend Mother is reminded that her small convent is in the danger of being closed down, due to the lack of donations, or any meaningful engagement with the local community. Deloris becomes a nun and is given the name "Sister Mary Clarence". Reverend Mother orders that while Deloris is with them, she will conduct herself as a nun, and only she would be aware of her true identity. Deloris has to follow the 3 vows of nuns namely poverty, obedience and chastity. Deloris initially has difficulty dealing with the rigid and simple convent life, and butts heads with Reverend Mother, but she befriends the other nuns including the forever jolly Sister Mary Patrick (Kathy Najimy), quiet and meek Sister Mary Robert (Wendy Makkena), and the elderly deadpan Sister Mary Lazarus (Mary Wickes). One night, after a poorly attended Sunday Mass, with a lackluster performance from the convent choir led by Mary Lazarus, Deloris decides she needs a break, and she sneaks out to a bar, followed by Mary Patrick and Mary Robert. They are caught by the Reverend Mother, and Mary Clarence is punished by being put into the choir, which she learns is dreadful due to a lack of coordination. She takes charge of the choir members and rearranges them to make them better singers. At the Sunday Mass, the choir sings perfectly before going into a gospel and rock and roll-infused performance of "Hail Holy Queen." The Reverend Mother is infuriated, but Monsignor O'Hara is thrilled as the music brought people in off the streets. The choir cleans up the neighborhood and wows churchgoers with their music, with Souther eventually attending a performance of the Choir. Their singing and efforts to revitalize the neighborhood attract media attention, and the parish thrives.
Souther chastises Deloris for nearly being exposed on national television as Vince has placed a bounty on her head. She assures him she will try to keep a lower profile, and Souther attends a Mass. The nun's choir continues to amaze parishioners and visitors, especially with a rendition of "My Guy" - rewritten and performed as "My God". Eventually, O'Hara announces to the choir that Pope John Paul II is to visit the church to see the choir himself. Deloris tells Reverend Mother that Vince's upcoming trial means she will soon leave. The Mother reveals she has resigned as abbess, believing she is no longer useful to the convent as her authority was undermined. Deloris tries to convince her to stay and keep the parish thriving as it is, but the Mother retorts that she believes herself too old-fashioned and incapable of doing so. Detective Tate (Guy Boyd), a police officer on Vince's payroll, finds out where Deloris is and contacts Vince, who sends Joey and Willy out to grab her. Souther realizes Tate's betrayal, has him arrested, and flies to San Francisco to warn Mary Clarence, but she is kidnapped by Vince's men.
Vince's men kidnap Deloris and Mary Robert, but Deloris helps Mary Robert to escape. When Mary Robert returns to the convent, Reverend Mother reveals to the nuns that Sister Mary Clarence is Deloris Van Cartier and explains why she had been hiding in their convent. They decide to rescue Deloris, requesting a helicopter pilot to fly them to Reno. Vince orders his men to kill Deloris, but they cannot bring themselves to shoot her while she is dressed in a nun's habit. Mary Clarence escapes Vince and his men, leading to a chase around the casino until the nuns find her and try to sneak out. Vince, Joey and Willy confront the nuns but Souther bursts in, shoots Vince in the arm, and has the men arrested. Thanking Deloris for her actions, Reverend Mother decides to remain as abbess of the convent. Returning to San Francisco, the choir, led by Deloris, sing "I Will Follow Him" to a packed audience in a refurbished Saint Katherine's, receiving a standing ovation from all, including Reverend Mother, the Pope, Monsignor O'Hara, and Lt. Souther. Deloris continues to guide and coach the choir as a touring musical group. The story of Deloris' secret life as a nun was sold to the media and has become a sensation.