movieId: 1894
title: Six Days Seven Nights
year: 1998
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120828/
ratingValue: 
directors: Ivan Reitman
actors: Harrison Ford, Anne Heche, David Schwimmer, Jacqueline Obradors, Temuera Morrison, Allison Janney, Douglas Weston, Cliff Curtis, Danny Trejo, Ben Bode

synopsis:
Robin Monroe (Anne Heche), a New York journalist working for Dazzle, a fashion magazine, is invited by her boyfriend Frank (David Schwimmer) to spend a week holiday with him on the island paradise of Makatea in the South Pacific. Frank and Robin have been dating for 3 years and they met while fighting over a cab. The final leg of their journey to Makatea is in a small, dilapidated aircraft (DHC-2 Beaver) piloted by middle-aged American Quinn Harris (Harrison Ford). The plane was leaking engine oil and that made Robin very nervous. Frank had chartered a flight with Tropical Charters, but their plane was holed up in Fiji and hence the company had sub-contracted the flight to Quinn. There are no other charter flights, and the boat takes 3 days to get to the Island.
They are accompanied by Quinn's girlfriend and co-pilot Angelica (Jacqueline Obradors). Angelica is a well-endowed woman, a bit ditsy and like to wear very skimpy clothes. Frank takes a liking to Angelica. On their first night on the island, Frank proposes to her, and she happily accepts resulting in their engagement. Later that night, a drunken Quinn, failing to recognize Robin, unsuccessfully hits on her, which she rejects as Frank appears. The next morning Robin, a workaholic, is called away to Tahiti by her boss Marjorie (Allison Janney), to supervise a fashion event. The way the locations of the stars for the fashion shoot are, the only way to do it would be in a 15-hour window in Tahiti and Robin is closest to it. Robin is worried to leave Frank the day after their engagement. Marjorie says that this would an excellent way to establish boundaries and to tell Frank that Robin is serious about her career, even after marriage. She hires Quinn to fly her there (by bribing him $700), but an unexpected thunderstorm hits them hard. Lightning strikes the plane, damaging the transmitter and radio. Quinn is forced to land on a deserted island, and he aims for the beach, but the plane hits a large rock that damages the landing gear. The next day, Frank and Angelica join an aerial search party for their missing partners. Robin is completely distraught that they are the only ones on the island with no communication, no food and no shelter and may be like this for a long time. The plane's emergency location transmitter on the plane is also fried, they cannot take off with one tire, and the rescue flight will be blind without a beacon to hone in. They only have a flare gun with a single flare.
Robin gets excited seeing a commercial flight flying overhead and shoots the flare, but it is useless as the flight 5 miles high going 600 miles an hour. Anyways she trips and only ends up setting fire to a coconut tree. Initially believing they are on a peninsula rather than an island; they try to find the non-existent connection to the mainland. Then believing they are on the island of Tamitange, they climb a mountain to disable a beacon Quinn believes to be there (which would bring a repair crew to the Island). But are unsuccessful as they are on the wrong island.
They find a fresh water source, but a snake crawls into Robin's shorts and Quinn has to put his hands in her shorts to pull the snake out and save her life. Quinn hunts for peacocks as they taste just like chicken. Frank realizes that Robin is missing when Marjorie calls and informs that Robin never reached Tahiti for the photo shoot.
The air-sea rescue team, accompanied by Angelica and Frank, try to find Quinn and Robin, but are unable to do so. They spot a yacht off the coast and row out in Frank's life raft. Using binoculars, Quinn witnesses a man being killed and thrown overboard and realizes that a second boat there belongs to pirates. The pirates see them and pursue the duo back to the island. After briefly getting captured, Quinn and Robin narrowly escape by jumping off a cliff into the ocean, then hide in the jungle. They discover a crashed World War II Japanese float-plane. Quinn and Robin grow romantically attracted. Meanwhile, back in Makatea, after a few days of unsuccessful searching, Angelica and Frank are forging their own relationship. One night, thinking that Robin is dead, and he will never see her again, Frank gets drunk and sleeps with Angelica. Soon after, the search is ended, and a beach-side memorial service is planned for Quinn and Robin. The vast majority of the film deals with the adventures (often comic in nature) of Quinn and Robin as they try to escape the island, evade the pirates, survive in the island's jungle wilderness, and repair Quinn's plane so it can take off. In the process, Quinn and Robin fall in love, despite their initial dislike towards one another. Quinn and Robin salvage the float-plane's pontoons and modify Quinn's plane to leave the island. As they are about to take off, the pirates reappear and fire shells onto the beach, injuring Quinn. The duo are able to take off and fly over the pirates, who, shooting directly up into the air, accidentally destroy their boat when the shell lands on them. Quinn quickly tells Robin how to land the plane before he passes out due to his injury, leaving Robin to fly herself. Arriving at Makatea, she crash lands the plane close to the beach where the memorial service is in progress.
Frank is very happy to see Robin alive but is disgusted at himself for sleeping with Angelica and not being able to tell Robin about it. After their arrival, Robin goes to the hospital where Quinn is recovering and tells him about her feelings, but he rejects her saying that due to their professional and personal lives, they can't be together. Robin then decides to go back to New York with Frank but at the airport finds she unable to do so. Frank finally tells her about sleeping with Angelica and she tells him about her feelings for Quinn. They decide they aren't in love, and she gives him back the engagement ring. Meanwhile, Quinn has had a change of heart and rushes to the airport but is too late to stop the plane. He then encounters Robin getting out of an airplane, having stopped the flight telling the crew that she just couldn't go. He walks up to her and finally reciprocates her feelings for him. The movie ends with Quinn and Robin embracing and kissing each other.