movieId: 3888
title: Skipped Parts
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0209322/
ratingValue: 
directors: Tamra Davis
actors: Bug Hall, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Mischa Barton, Drew Barrymore, Peggy Lipton, Angela Featherstone, Brad Renfro, R. Lee Ermey, Michael Greyeyes, Gerald Lenton-Young

synopsis:
In 1963, Greensboro, North Carolina, lives a liberal-minded Lydia (Jennifer Leigh), and her 14-year-old son Sam (Bug Hall). Lydia's father Casper Callahan (R. Lee Ermey) is running for governor of North Carolina, and he does not want Lydia and Sam in his way, so the two are banished from North Carolina. Lydia claims that she did not do anything wrong, but Sam can guess that Lydia messed up again and Casper could not risk more embarrassment to hit his campaign. Lydia knows that Casper banished them as having an illegitimate grandchild would not look good on the campaign trail. Sam started writing the day his grandfather banished him and his mother from North Carolina. Sam promises not to skip the good parts, unlike the other writers as his story is not about self-pity. Lydia drives 2000 miles with the top down. She could not read a map, so Sam navigated. Arriving in Wyoming, Lydia only wants to have a good time, and Sam is never allowed to call her "Mom" (she wants him to call her "Lydia").
Lydia decides to break away from her usual habits & start a new life in Wyoming. Lydia's liberal ways cause quite a stir in small town Gro Vant, Wyoming. Sam soon finds out that he is one of only two students in Gro Vant High School who can read. Sam is the only one who seems to ask questions during class and challenges the opinion of the teachers, while the others are simply OK to memorize whatever is taught in class.
The other one is Maurey (Mischa Barton), a girl at the same age as Sam who wants to learn about sex. Maurey is Sam's neighbor. Maurey's mother Laurabel (Peggy Lipton) takes a welcome basket for Lydia, but Lydia is offended at being typecast as a housewife and shuts the door on Laurabel's face. Lydia is a scandal in a largely conservative town. All the single men lust after Lydia, who is bored with the same old, wants to try "something new". Dot (Andrea Menard) is the waitress at the local diner where Lydai and Sam have their meals. Sam is forced to join the football team as the coach cannot conduct practice till he has 22 players and he is one short. The coach is also Sam's English team and threatens him with failing the class, if he does not comply.
Maurey and Sam don't get along at first but are united in their grief when President Kennedy is shot in Texas. Both are also bullied in school by the players of the school football team & which brings them even closer together.
Lydia is devastated at the news of the Kennedy assassination. Sam tells Maurey that Lydia never talks about his father. Once he saw a picture of 5 guys in football uniforms in Lydia's undergarments box and figured that one of them might be his father. Lydia picks up a local native American man, Blackfeet named Hank (Michael Greyeyes), to come and live with them as she knows that her father cannot stand native Americans. Lydia starts having sex with Hank and then starts to frequent the local bars and saloons & frequently gets drunk. Maurey is frustrated that nobody would satisfy her curiosity on the subject of sex. While Lydia is too open about sex with Sam, but Maurey is told that the topic of sex cannot be spoken about openly. When Sam has a wet dream, Lydia is only too happy to sit him down and explain the process to him. Later when Sam and Maurey were in their underwear (Sam in the briefs and Maurey in the panties and bra) and the clothes were hanging around the bed, Maurey ask Sam to go first but Sam told Maurey to ask her to go as well, Eventually they both stood naked, that embarrasses Sam but Maurey said they would skip parts and they embrace.
Maurey and Sam try to have sex, but just don't know what goes where. Maurey holds Sam's penis in her hands, and he ejaculates, which grosses her out.
They reach out to Lydia, who tells them the anatomy of sex & gets them to try again and again till they get it right. Maurey dabbles with the hockey team jock, while Sam spends time with Bible thumping Chuckette Morris (Alison Pill). Sam and Chuckette share a few kisses, and when Sam says that he doesn't love her, she feels that she has been taken advantage of.
Consequent to Maurey and Sam's mutual discoveries, Maurey becomes pregnant. Maurey decides to have an abortion in a distant hospital, and by accident, runs into her mother Laurabel (Peggy Lipton) and the baseball coach who is also there with the same intent. Hank admonishes Lydia for teaching sex games to Sam & Maurey when they were only 14. He places the blame of Maurey's pregnancy squarely on Lydia, who allowed this to happen on her watch. Maurey moves to Lydia's and Sam's house, since her father banishes her from his house. Meanwhile, Hank Elkrunner falls for the feckless Lydia, while her dictatorial dad keeps tabs on them all from afar. In the end, Maurey decides not to have an abortion and keeps the baby, a little girl named Shannon. After being threatened to be financially cut off unless she breaks up with Hank, and lets Sam go to Military School, Lydia decides to stay with Hank, and takes a job at the local diner. In addition, Hank sells his trailer and moves in with Sam and Lydia, along with Maurey and Shannon who decide to permanently move in. The film ends with Sam finishing the flashback for the story, with Shannon nearby. Throughout the movie, Sam has many dream fantasies which star Drew Barrymore as the subject of his fantasies.
In one scenario Drew is a nurse, comforting Sam on his deathbed due to the exile, and Casper repenting and seeking his forgiveness.
In the scenario, after his wet dream, Drew is a sexy seductress, who helps "make a man out of him" by having sex with him 5 times in a single day.