movieId: 2096
title: Sleeping Beauty
year: 1959
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0053285/
ratingValue: 
directors: Les Clark, Clyde Geronimi, Eric Larson, Wolfgang Reitherman, Hamilton Luske
actors: Mary Costa, Bill Shirley, Eleanor Audley, Verna Felton, Barbara Luddy, Barbara Jo Allen, Taylor Holmes, Bill Thompson, Bob Amsberry

synopsis:
In 14th century France, King Stefan (Taylor Holmes) and Queen Leah (Verna Felton) welcome their newborn daughter, Aurora (Mary Costa), and proclaim a holiday for their subjects to pay homage to the princess. Her parents named her after the dawn as she filled their lives with sunshine.
At her christening, she is betrothed to Prince Phillip (Bill Shirley), the son of Stefan's friend King Hubert (Bill Thompson), in order to unite their kingdoms. The three good fairies, Flora (Verna Felton) the domineering and responsible self-appointed leader, Fauna (Barbara Jo Allen) a sweet and affectionate good fairy, and Merryweather (Barbara Luddy) a feisty and impulsive good fairy who challenges Flora's leadership, arrive and bless Aurora with one gift each, no more and no less. After Flora and Fauna give her beauty and song, the evil fairy Maleficent (Eleanor Audley) a witch from the Forbidden Mountain, appears and is angry at not being invited. Maleficent is a powerful evil fairy and self-proclaimed "Mistress of All Evil". She places a curse on Aurora. Maleficent says that Aurora will grow up with beauty and grace and will be loved by one and all. But, before the sun sets on Aurora's sixteenth birthday, Aurora will prick her finger on the spindle of a spinning wheel and die. A horrified Leah rushes to hold the baby in fright and an enraged Stefan orders his guards to arrest Maleficent, but she disappears with a laugh in a plume of smoke, leaving everyone horrified and worried about the princess's doomed future. Flora and Fauna persuade Merryweather to use her gift to weaken Maleficent's spell. Merryweather's magic isn't strong enough to undo the curse, so she uses her gift to change it so that Aurora will instead fall into a deep sleep until true love's kiss breaks the spell.
The Good fairies cannot harm Maleficent as their magic can only be used to bring joy and happiness to others. Still fearful, Stefan orders all the kingdom's spinning wheels to be burned.
Flora proposes to change the princess into a flower as a flower cannot prick her finger, but she remembers that Maleficent can send a frost. Fauna says that the only thing Maleficent cannot understand and anticipate is a gesture of selfless love. Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather devise a plan to hide Aurora in a secluded location and raise her themselves until her sixteenth birthday, to which Stefan and Leah reluctantly agree. The fairies move into a forest woodcutter's cottage, giving up magic (so Maleficent cannot find them through their miracles) and living as peasants. They also rename Aurora to Briar Rose. On Aurora's sixteenth birthday, the fairies send her to gather berries so they can prepare a surprise party with a cake and a special dress that is fit for a princess. After Aurora leaves, the fairies struggle as neither knew how to sew or cook and they still did not want to use their magic wands as that might attract Maleficent. The fairies are sad as they know that the next day Auroa would be a princess, and they would lose her to her real parents. In the forest, Aurora sings to the animals, drawing the attention of Phillip, now a handsome young man who was traveling through the forest on his horse Samson. They fall in love without revealing their names, and thus neither knows that they are already betrothed to each other. The princess is enchanted by the young man, but remembering how the fairies told her not to talk to strangers, runs away. However, she does tell the prince where she lives and invites Phillip to the cottage that evening. At the Forbidden Mountain, the atmosphere has stayed in a constant clouded thunder, a sign of Maleficent's mood and that her own quest to find the hidden princess has not been fulfilled. She was livid with her minions who were searching for a baby, not realizing that Aurora would have grown up with time. Maleficent sends her raven, Diablo, to find the princess, who is 16 years old, with hair of sunshine gold, and lips red as the rose. Meanwhile, the fairies decide to use their wands after all, since their attempts at making a cake and a gown for Aurora are a complete disaster.
Flora and Merryweather's argument about the color of Aurora's birthday gown (Flora wanted pink, and Merryweather wanted blue) attracts the attention of Maleficent's pet raven, Diablo (Candy Candido) who can see the sparkles from the magic wand coming out of the chimney of the cottage. Aurora returns and tells her guardians that she has fallen in love. They reveal her true identity, which Diablo overhears. The fairies tell Aurora that she must never see the boy again. Meanwhile, back at the castle Hubert has a feast with Stefan celebrating the end of the curse period as it is only half an hour to go for sunset. Hubert commissions a new castle where Phillip and Aurora can live after their wedding. Hubert says that the castle is almost finished, and the lovebirds can move in as soon as they are married. Stefan is circumspect as he wants to spend time with his daughter after 16 years apart. Phillip tells his father about the peasant girl he met and wants to marry, unaware she is the princess to whom he is betrothed. Hubert is upset at this turn of events and tries to persuade him to remember his betrothal, but Phillip rides back to the forest and to the cottage, leaving Hubert glum about how he will tell Stefan about what Phillip says. Shortly before sunset, the fairies bring Aurora to the castle for her birthday celebration. Maleficent appears as a glowing ball of light and beckons Aurora to a tower room. Aurora follows her as she is hypnotized. The fairies realize that Maleficent has lured Aurora and follow her into the tower room. The fairies call for Aurora not to touch anything, but Maleficent's voice lures Aurora to prick her finger on the spinning wheel's spindle that she conjures. As a result, Flora, Merryweather, and Fauna arrive too late to save Aurora, who falls into a deep sleep. The fairies place the sleeping Aurora in the highest tower. Merryweather and Fauna wonder how they'll explain the incident to Aurora's parents. Flora put the entire kingdom to sleep until Aurora is awakened. While doing so, Flora overhears a conversation between Hubert and Stefan and realizes that Phillip is the boy that Aurora met. The fairies rush to the cottage, only to discover that Phillip has been abducted by Maleficent. At her domain, the Forbidden Mountain, Maleficent reveals Aurora's identity to Phillip. She plans to lock him away until he is an old man on the verge of death before releasing him to meet Aurora, who will not have aged a single day. The fairies rescue Phillip and arm him with the magical Sword of Truth and the Shield of Virtue. Diablo tries to warn Maleficent, but Merryweather turns him into a petrified stone before returning to Phillip, Flora, and Fauna. Maleficent surrounds Stefan's castle with a forest of thorns, but Phillip breaks through it. Outraged, she transforms into a giant, fire-breathing dragon. In the ensuing battle, Phillip kills Maleficent by thrusting his sword into her heart. Phillip finds Aurora and awakens her with a kiss, bringing the rest of the kingdom out of their slumber. After Hubert, Stefan, and Leah awaken, the sound of the trumpets heralds the arrival of Aurora and Phillip and it is soon made clear to Hubert that it was actually Aurora that Phillip met in the woods. The two then share a dance as their parents and the three fairies watch. However, Merryweather and Flora continue fighting over the color of Aurora's gown again as the dancing couple lived happily ever after.