movieId: 539
title: Sleepless in Seattle
year: 1993
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0108160/
ratingValue: 
directors: Nora Ephron
actors: Tom Hanks, Ross Malinger, Rita Wilson, Victor Garber, Tom Riis Farrell, Carey Lowell, Meg Ryan, Bill Pullman, Le Clanché du Rand, Kevin O'Morrison

synopsis:
Sam Baldwin (Tom Hanks), a Chicago architect, loses his wife Maggie (Carey Lowell) to cancer. Sam's friend Jay Mattews (Rob Reiner) wants him to join a support group or seek therapy. Sam says that Chicago reminds him of Maggie.
He and his young son Jonah (Ross Malinger) start new lives in Seattle, but Sam still grieves. 18 months later, on Christmas Eve 1992, Jonah-who wants his father to find a new wife-calls into a talk radio show hosted by Dr Marcia Fieldstone of Network America. Jonah persuades Sam to go on the air to talk about how much he misses Maggie. Sam is not sleeping at nights and says that Maggie made Christmas beautiful. He says that every kid needs a mother. Sam doesn't believe that he would ever love anyone as much as he loved Maggie. Marcia dubs Sam "Sleepless in Seattle".
Hundreds of women from around the country hear the program, and touched by the story, write to Sam. The network had called the next day and Jonah ended up giving their address to them. One of the listeners is Annie Reed (Meg Ryan), a Baltimore Sun reporter. She is engaged to Walter (Bill Pullman) but feels there is something missing from their relationship. Annie has just introduced Walter to her parents Cliff (Kevin O'Morrison), Barbara (Le Clanché Du Rand), sister Irene (Frances Conroy), and brother Dennis (David Hyde Pierce).
Walter is allergic to almost everything. They can't have a wedding out in the open, as he is allergic to bees, no strawberries, or even grass.
Annie does not believe in destiny or fate, even though she met Walter when they ordered the same sandwich at the deli, and he got her brown bread (to which he is allergic) and she gets her his white bread. Annie works at a news paper and learns from her editor the next day that the Chicago switchboard was tied up 2 hours the previous night after the Jonah call to Network America. Annie says that she heard the interview and Becky tells her to write a piece on it.
Meanwhile Walter has some business travel coming up and tells Annie to meet him in New York for a Valentine's Day dinner.
Annie cannot get Sam out of her head and cries every time she thinks about his interview. She misses that spark and emotional connection with Walter.
After watching the film An Affair to Remember, Annie impulsively writes a letter suggesting that Sam meet her on top of the Empire State Building on Valentine's Day. She does not intend to mail it, but her friend and editor Becky (Rosie O'Donnell) does it for her and agrees to send Annie to Seattle to "look into doing a story on those radio shows." Sam begins dating a coworker, Victoria (Barbara Garrick), whom Jonah dislikes. Jonah, a baseball fan, reads Annie's letter and likes that it mentions the Baltimore Orioles but fails to convince his father to go to New York to meet Annie. On the advice of his friend Jessica (Gaby Hoffmann), Jonah replies to Annie agreeing to the New York meeting. While dropping Victoria off at the airport for a flight, Sam sees Annie exiting from her plane and is taken by her, although he has no idea who she is. Annie watches Sam and Jonah playing on the beach together but mistakes Sam's sister Suzy (Rita Wilson) for his girlfriend. He recognizes her from the airport and says "Hello", but Annie can only respond with another "hello" before fleeing. She decides she is being foolish and goes to New York to meet Walter for Valentine's Day. With Jessica's help, Jonah flies to New York without his father's permission, and goes to the Empire State Building in search of Annie. Jonah goes to observation deck and asks every unattached woman if she is Annie. Sam, distraught, follows Jonah and finds him on the observation deck.
Meanwhile, Annie has seen the skyscraper from the Rainbow Room where she is dining with Walter and confesses her doubts to him. They amicably end their engagement. She rushes to the Empire State Building, but the observation deck has closed. Annie convinces the guard to allow her to go to observation deck (An Affair to Remember is the guard's wife's favorite movie) and arrives just moments after the doors to the down elevator close with Sam and Jonah inside. In spite of the observation deck being deserted, Annie convinces the elevator operator to let her take a quick look around. She discovers a backpack that Jonah has left behind. As she pulls out Jonah's teddy bear from the backpack, Sam and Jonah emerge from the elevator, and the three meet for the first time.
Annie asks Jonah if the teddy bear is his, and he says it is. "Are you Annie?" Jonah asks. She nods yes, and Jonah smiles. "You're Annie," says a stunned Sam. The elevator operator clears his throat. Sam indicates they should go, momentarily making it unclear what his intentions are, until he says, "Shall we?", offers his hand to Annie, and the three go down the elevator together.