movieId: 6810
title: Sleeping with the Enemy
year: 1991
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0102945/
ratingValue: 
directors: Joseph Ruben
actors: Julia Roberts, Patrick Bergin, Kevin Anderson, Elizabeth Lawrence, Kyle Secor, Claudette Nevins, Tony Abatemarco, Marita Geraghty, Harley Venton, Nancy Fish

synopsis:
Laura Burney (Julia Roberts) lives in a beautiful home by the beach on Cape Cod with her husband, Martin (Patrick Bergin), a charmingly handsome and wealthy investment counselor. They live in a mansion right off the beach and have no other houses in the near vicinity.
Beneath Martin's charming, handsome exterior, however, is a possessive, abusive, and controlling person. It becomes clear that he has OCPD (obsessive-compulsive personality disorder), and while she tries to abide by his needs, she seems to suffer under the strain. Martin would admonish Laura is the bathroom towels or the kitchen cupboards were not arranged perfectly, to his exacting standards. Laura has next to no friends and spends all her time alone, keeping herself busy with her hobbies and interacting with nature.
Martin takes Laura to a dinner party and makes her wear a backless black gown, even though it was chilly that night and Laura wanted to wear something more conservative. Martin controls the amount of time Laura is allowed to be social with other people. They return home where Martin has rigorous sex with Laura. Martin meets John, a doctor, who has recently moved in from Boston. John praises Martin's house and his wife. Martin does not react to John and returns home.
Martin believes Laura has been flirting with the attractive John, and he physically assaults her as punishment when they return home. Laura begs that she has never met John, but Martin alleges that she has been staring at John from the window all day. The abuse is an ongoing routine, which began immediately after their wedding.
Martin has physically, emotionally, and sexually abused Laura throughout their nearly four-year marriage. Then, in a recurring pattern, he apologetically showers her with flowers and gifts. Laura is miserable in her marriage and despite all her efforts she does not know when the torture is going to end. Laura submits to Martin's desire for sex, whenever he wants it, but it is clear that she detests his touch on her body. Martin accepts the invitation of their neighbor John (Kyle Secor), for an evening sail, despite knowing that Laura fears water and cannot swim. Before the trip, Laura breaks one of the public lights next to Martin's mansion on the shore. As a severe storm unexpectedly rolls in, Martin and the doctor struggle to control the vessel. Laura is swept overboard in the chaos as the sailboat rolls uncontrollably. After an extensive Coast Guard search, Laura is presumed dead from drowning (as her life jacket is found) and Martin is inconsolable. A funeral is held for Laura by the community and friends. Laura is revealed to actually be alive. Unknown to Martin, Laura, whom Martin believed to be a non-swimmer, had planned and faked her own death at sea in the storm while the couple were boating.
Laura swims to safety, having recently taken swimming lessons at the YWCA. She secretly returns home (guided by the broken light on the shore, while all the others were working), retrieves some clothing and cash she had hidden away in preparation, disguises herself (She cut her hair, donned a wig), and leaves home after flushing her wedding ring down the toilet. She headed to a nearby bus station.
An old woman in the bus realizes that Laura is running away from an abusing husband. Laura moves to Cedar Falls, Iowa. In preparation, she has told Martin that her blind, stroke-impaired mother, Chloe Williams (Elizabeth Lawrence), died, and pretended to attend the funeral, but secretly she had moved her to a nursing home in Iowa. She rents a modest house and adopts the name Sara Waters. In Cedar Falls, she meets Ben Woodward (Kevin Anderson), who teaches drama at the local college. A relationship develops, but suffers a setback when Ben discovers that her real name is not Sara. They have an agreeable date, but when a kiss turns more physical, Laura resists and demands that Ben leave. The next day, she confesses that she is on the run from an abusive husband.
Martin receives a chance phone call from a friend of Laura's from the YWCA, learning of Laura's swimming lessons. His suspicions aroused, Martin heads home and finds the ring in the toilet bowl, where it failed to flush.
From the Cape Cod nursing home, he learns that Laura's mother is alive and has her traced to the nursing home in Iowa. Martin travels to Chloe's nursing home, masquerading as a detective, and learns that Chloe's "nephew" has just visited. He also learns from her that Laura is seeing a college drama teacher in Cedar Falls. Laura, disguised as a man, is also at the nursing home, and barely misses encountering Martin. Martin finds Laura and Ben at a local fair, then follows her to her home. After leaving idiosyncratic clues around the house (the hand towels perfectly aligned and the contents of the kitchen cabinets lined up to Martin's exacting standards) for Laura to find, Martin confronts Laura. Ben appears at the door and Martin, brandishing a gun, threatens to kill Ben if she doesn't make him leave. Laura talks to Ben, and he appears to leave, but then breaks down the door and struggles with Martin, who knocks him unconscious. As he aims the gun at Ben, Laura distracts and attacks Martin, who drops the gun, and she manages to take control of it; she fires at Martin but misses. Martin dares her to call the police. As Laura calls the police, Martin expects her to tell the police to protect her from him, as she had done in the past, but Laura shocks Martin by informing the police she has killed an intruder and then shoots Martin three times in the chest. She shoots him three times, Martin falls to the ground, and she drops the pistol. Laura collapses, sobbing, but Martin grabs her and points the gun at her. He pulls the trigger, but the gun only clicks empty, and Martin sags lifelessly. Ben is revived by Laura, and they embrace as Martin's dead body lies on the ground with Laura's wedding ring inches from his hand.