movieId: 540
title: Sliver
year: 1993
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0108162/
ratingValue: 
directors: Phillip Noyce
actors: Sharon Stone, William Baldwin, Tom Berenger, Polly Walker, Colleen Camp, Amanda Foreman, Martin Landau, CCH Pounder, Nina Foch, Keene Curtis

synopsis:
Carly Norris (Sharon Stone), a beautiful book editor and divorcee in her mid-30s, moves into the exclusive New York City sliver building "113". A sliver building is a tall building constructed on a lot with a narrow frontage, more specifically in New York City. Evelyn McEvoy (Nina Foch) is the real estate agent for the apartment building. Carly loved the view and the fact that the apartment is on a high floor. Carly was married to her ex-husband for 7 years and feels that she wasted that time of her life and was too late to realize that she shared nothing in common with the man she was spending her life with. Judy (Colleen Camp) is Carly's colleague at the office. Alex Parsons (Martin Landau) is Carly's boss and she is expecting a raise at work. Carly meets other tenants including Zeke (William Baldwin), a video game designer, Jack (Tom Berenger) a novelist, Vida (Polly Walker) a fashion model who moonlights as a call girl, and Gus (Keene Curtis) a professor of Videography at New York University. They tell Carly that she bears a striking resemblance to Naomi Singer (Allison Mackie), the previous tenant of her apartment who fell to her death from her balcony.
Gus travels a lot to Japan to look over the latest video technology that he can later teach in his class. Alex introduces Jack to Carly at work. Jack had written 2 hit novels a few years ago and nothing ever since. Alex wanted Carly to convince Jack to write again. Carly admits that she has never read Jack's novels before in her life. Jack becomes slightly obsessive with Carly and says that she will read his novels as she has good taste. It is shown in a flashback that Naomi was thrown off the balcony of her apartment by a mysterious man in a hoodie who had access to Naomi's place.
Zeke is very friendly to Carly and even helps her move into the building. He somehow is present every time Carly is in the common areas of the building. Unknown to Carly her apartment, even her bathroom was bugged with secret cameras that were keeping an eye on her.
The mysterious person had bugged every apartment in the building with hidden cameras and was keeping an eye on everybody at the same time.
The person sees Carly in the bathroom, in her tub, masturbating. Jack badgers Carly to read his novels after he sends her a copy of his 2 bestsellers. Carly stands up to Jack and indicates that she does not like the intrusion into her private life, but Jack is very persistent. Someone sends Carly a telescope as a gift but kept their identity hidden.
Through the telescope Carly sees Vida trying to seduce Jack on the streets. She only leaves after Jack gives her some money from his wallet. After running into Zeke numerous times, Carly invites him to her housewarming party. Jack also barges in without an invitation. Carly joins the gym with Zeke. One time she gets stuck in the laundromat of the building in the basement, when the power fails, and gets really scared after hearing strange noises. Zeke arrives there shortly afterwards to rescue her.
Carly visits Zeke at his apartment after a gym session, where Zeke got really flirty with her and touched her behind. Soon afterwards, Carly and Zeke begin a sexual relationship. Their sex sessions are also recorded by the mysterious person with the hidden cameras. Meanwhile, Jack starts stalking Carly and warning her about Zeke who he says is "sick". He also points out that Zeke's deceased mother, a soap opera actress named Thea Manning, bears a resemblance to Carly. Jack says that Zeke was seeing Naomi and that Naomi was seeing a shrink.
Carly retorts that Jack is unable to write anymore and is making up these stories about Zeke and Naomi to hide the fact that he cannot write. Carly continues to see Zeke and gets romantically involved with him. Zeke engages Carly in increasingly erotic behavior including exposing her undergarments to him at a restaurant while they were having a meal in the dining room. Zeke tells Carly that he never knew Naomi and that she came onto him once. Zeke instead tells Carly that it was Jack who had an affair with Naomi.
Carly calls Jack and says that it was Vida who told her that Jack had an affair with Naomi. Jack immediately recognizes that Vida never said any such thing and that it was Zeke who told Carly about the affair. As Jack's behavior becomes more erratic, Gus dies in the shower under suspicious circumstances and Vida is murdered, with police suspicion falling on Jack for her death after Carly discovers him in the stairwell with her corpse.
Carly is in touch with Lieutenant Victoria Hendrix (C. C. H. Pounder). Zeke reveals to Carly that he is the owner of 113, which he bought with his inheritance from his wealthy father. As owner of 113, Zeke has installed a comprehensive video surveillance system throughout the building, allowing him to spy on all of the tenants from his own secret surveillance room. It is revealed that Zeke is the mysterious person spying on everybody in the building.
Carly realizes that Zeke has been spying on her through his hidden cameras. Carly is livid, but is intrigued by the system and starts playing with it herself as she looks into the private lives of all the other people in the building. Jack is charged with the murder of Vida but is released on bail and returns to the building. Through deduction and eventually one of Zeke's secret recordings, Carly learns that Jack killed Naomi in a crime of passion.
Jack was jealous of Zeke, who had sexual relations with both Naomi and Vida. Jack attacks Carly in her own apartment, and she accidentally shoots him dead. Angry at Zeke for withholding evidence in Naomi's murder, and jealous of his liaisons with Naomi and Vida, Carly destroys Zeke's surveillance room, tells him to "get a life", then leaves.