movieId: 5048
title: Snow Dogs
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0281373/
ratingValue: 
directors: Brian Levant
actors: Cuba Gooding Jr., James Coburn, Sisqó, Nichelle Nichols, M. Emmet Walsh, Graham Greene, Brian Doyle-Murray, Joanna Bacalso, Jean Michel Paré, Michael Bolton

synopsis:
In 2002, Theodore "Ted" Brooks (Cuba Gooding, Jr.) is a dentist from Miami, Florida whose picture appears on every city bus in advertisements to promote his dental practice. Ted learned the trade from his dentist father Dr. Brooks (Christopher Judge) who has passed away since then.
Ted's cousin Rupert also works at the practice. Ted is not very fond of dogs. Brooks receives his letter from Alaska one day naming him as the only heir of a Lucy Watkins a resident of the backwoods village of Tolketna. Back home, his mother, Amelia (Nichelle Nichols), reveals that he is adopted, and Lucy was his biological mother. Amelia says that she wanted to tell Ted earlier, but then his father died, and she wanted to give him time recover from the grief. Ted's entire value system is shaken. He knows that he became a dentist as his "father" was a dentist and now he doubts that maybe he was meant to be something different. Brooks travels to the village of Tolketna to claim his inheritance left by his biological mother: seven Siberian Huskies named Diesel, Mack, Sniff, Yodel, Scooper, Duchess and Demon and a Border Collie named Nana.
Tolketna is a small little village. George (M. Emmet Walsh) is the attorney, the justice of peace and the bush pilot. Peter Yellowbear (Graham Greene) was Lucy's snow golf buddy and he gets her lucky putter. Lucy worked under Barb at the local bar, and she gives her the Shearling coat. During his stay in Tolketna, Brooks attempt to find the reason why he was given up for adoption, including any information about his biological father. He meets the bar owner named Barb (Joanna Bacalso), who was a close friend of his biological mother. Barb says that Lucy did not abandon Ted but does not elaborate. At Lucy's cottage, Ted finds that Lucy once participated in the Artic challenge and came in third.
Ted is attacked at the cottage by Demon and the other Huskies. Ted is forced to sleep in the barn with Nana. Totally out of his element, Brooks has to face challenges he has never dreamed of blizzards, thin ice, an intimidating, crusty old mountain man named Thunder Jack Johnson (James Coburn), and the aggressive, defiant lead dog, Demon. All of this happens with the buzzing excitement of the Arctic Challenge Sled Dog Race which is only two weeks away.
Thunder Jack is named as such as he is rumored to have been hit by lightning twice. Lucy left Thunder Jack the outhouse and all its contents. Jack offers Ted $200 for the dogs, but Barb intervenes and stops the sale. Barb tells Jack that any one of the dogs would be worth $500 and Demon is worth $1000. Barb refuses to let Jack take advantage of Ted.
Barb tells Ted that Jack wants the dogs for the Arctic challenge, which is in 2 weeks. Lucy's dogs are champions. Barb helps Brooks to deal with the dogs and teaches him how to drive a sled and falls in love with him. Brooks continues to encounter Thunder Jack, who wants all of his biological mother's sled dogs, especially Demon. Barb reveals to Ted that Thunder Jack is his biological father. Ted confronts Jack, who initially denies the claims. When Ted loses consciousness while practicing sledding and being chased by a bear, Jack rescues him and takes him to a cave. Jack offers to reveal the truth in exchange for the dogs
Brooks feels that the truth is worth the dogs themselves and trades them to Thunder Jack. Jack tells Brooks that he and Lucy stayed in a cave during one of the Arctic Challenges. It is there that Brooks was conceived. The next morning, when Thunder Jack woke up, Lucy was gone. He says that he was looking for Lucy, but never found her. Lucy gave Brooks up for adoption. Ted lets Jack have the dogs and returns to Miami. Jack adds Demon as lead dog of his team for the Arctic Challenge. When the race begins, Jack decides to press on in the middle of a fierce storm. Meanwhile, Brooks, who just returned to Miami, learns that his personal journey to Alaska is unfinished. In Miami, Ted recounts his experiences to his mother, who accidentally breaks a frame holding a picture of Lucy and Demon. Inside of the frame is a snapshot of Lucy and Jack with a baby. Ted is infuriated that Jack lied to him, and rushes back to Alaska. When Brooks learns of the missing musher and his team, he feels that this may be the opportunity to save a man, and perhaps find out the whole truth once and for all. Brooks sets out to rescue Thunder Jack, with Nana as the lead dog. A few hours later, Amelia arrives and meets Barb. She learns that Ted is out on the trail, searching for Jack. The "Arctic Flame" is burning over the finish line, until the last musher arrives. He eventually finds Thunder Jack in the old cave, who confirms that he had been there when Brooks was born. Thunder Jack reveals that he and Brooks agreed then that neither one of them could raise a baby and confesses his love for Lucy. Brooks finds out the reason for Demon's bad temper is the pain caused by his bad tooth. He pulls it out and Demon becomes a friendly dog. During the journey back to Tolketna, the sled nearly goes over a cliff into a river, but the dogs managed to pull themselves back up. Brooks finally brings Thunder Jack across the finish line.
Ted introduces Jack to Amelia, and he and Jack decide to share the "Arctic Flame" trophy, which is given to whoever comes in last. Sometimes later, Brooks and Barb were married, and Nana and Demon have four puppies. Now having grown to love Tolketna, Brooks moves his practice to it with Barb, who is pregnant as his secretary. The film ends when Brooks' adoptive cousin, Rupert (Sisqó), becomes the new famous Miami dentist with his face on every city bus.