movieId: 594
title: Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs
year: 1937
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0029583/
ratingValue: 
directors: William Cottrell, David Hand, Wilfred Jackson, Larry Morey, Perce Pearce, Ben Sharpsteen
actors: Roy Atwell, Stuart Buchanan, Adriana Caselotti, Eddie Collins, Pinto Colvig, Marion Darlington, Billy Gilbert, Otis Harlan, George Kiplunks

synopsis:
Having lost both of her parents at a young age, Snow White (Adriana Caselotti) is a princess living with her wicked and cold-heart stepmother, the Queen (Lucille La Verne). Fearing that Snow White's beauty will one day outshine her own, the Queen forces her to work as a scullery maid and wear the dirtiest rags. The Queen asks her Magic Mirror (Moroni Olsen) daily "who is the fairest one of all." For years, the mirror always answers that the Queen is, thus pleasing her. This also kept Snow White safe from the Queen's cruelty. One day, Snow White meets and falls in love with a prince who overhears her singing. The animals also love her sweet and gentle voice and come by to listen her sing. The prince joins Snow White in her singing at the wishing well. He climbs over the castle wall, unseen by her, who is singing to her reflection at the bottom of a well. He joins in, which startles and surprises her. Snow White was dressed in rags and runs away from the prince. But when he pleads for her to return, she comes to the balcony and listens as he sings "One Song" to her.
The Queen witnesses this. Infuriated at Snow White's beauty (and perhaps jealous for the Prince's affections), she closes the curtains in anger. The Prince smiles at Snow White before leaving. On that same day, the Magic Mirror informs the Queen that Snow White is now the fairest in all of the land. The mirror describes Snow White as someone with lips as red as a ruby, black hair as ebony, and skin white as snow. Angered, the Queen orders her Huntsman (Stuart Buchanan) to take Snow White into the forest, kill her, and bring back her heart in a jeweled box as proof. The Huntsman knew of the Princess since she was a little girl, but he was honor bound to follow the orders of his Queen. The Huntsman escorts Snow White into a glade far into the forest, and she being trusting, does not suspect anything foul.
As Snow White helps a baby bird find its parents, he unsheathes his dagger and advances on her. When she sees him approaching, she screams in terror. However, he is unable to fulfill his orders and drops his dagger.
The Huntsman cannot bring himself to kill Snow White and reveals to her the Queen's plot. He then urges her to flee into the woods and never return. The Huntsman takes back a pig's heart as proof of Snow White's death to the Queen. Snow White is terrified and runs towards the jungle. She encounters many horrors such as bats, tree branches that grope at her, caves entrances that resemble a human face, hollow husks in the water resembling crocodiles, leaves that chase her in a strong wind and scary eyes everywhere she goes.
Snow White falls down on the ground, exhausted and crying. The animals gather around her seeing her cry. She encounters some kind animals and admits that she was afraid and apologizes for making a fuss. She sings a song to befriend them. Snow White's kind voice attracts all sorts of animals to her location as they listen intently. She needs a place to sleep and tells the animals that she can't sleep on the ground, or in a tree or in a nest. so, they lead her to a cottage. The cottage is empty, and a little short in height and has 7 of everything. The cottage is very dirty and filthy. Snow White concludes that 7 very untidy little children stay at the cottage. She believes that the children have no mother and hence the cottage and never been cleaned. Snow White is distraught that the children are orphans like her.
Snow White enlists the help of all animals to clean up the cottage, the cobwebs, the dirty floor, the dishes, the dirty laundry and the fireplace. The 7 dwarfs are Doc (Roy Atwell) the pompous yet good-heart leader, Grumpy (Pinto Colvig) the most stubborn and easily-irritated of the dwarfs, Happy (Otis Harlan) the perennially cheerful and most optimistic, Sleepy (Pinto Colvig) the perpetually drowsy and most relaxed, Bashful (Scotty Mattraw) the most sentimental and shyest, Sneezy (Billy Gilbert) a dwarf who suffers from hay fever, and Dopey (Eddie Collins) the clumsiest and most childlike of the dwarfs, who communicates through sounds and pantomime, who work in a nearby mine. The dwarfs work in a diamond mine, digging for precious rocks all day. They prepare to go back home at the end of their work shift at 5 PM. Snow White found their names inscribed on their beds. Snow White is tired from all the work and goes to sleep in the beds.
The animals hear the miners coming home and run away. The miners think a goblin has taken over the house as the light was lit, the chimney was smoking, and the front door was open, and approach cautiously. They are astonished to find the house clean and spotless. A hot meal is cooking on the stove. As they search around the house, the birds scare them by pecking on the wood and making strange high-pitched noises that terrify the dwarfs. They hear someone sleeping in their beds upstairs and think it is the monster. They send Dopey to check who comes back petrified as Snow White was just waking up and was covered in a white sheet and looked like a ghost. The 6 dwarfs run out of the house and close the door behind them. Dopey struggles with the door handle and when it comes loose, he crashes into the dishes, thus getting covered in it. Dopey runs out of the house and is attacked by the other 6 till they realize that it is only Dopey. Dopey describes a tall, drooling, monster with horns, who is sleeping. The dwarfs decide to kill the monster while its asleep and all go upstairs. But they are astonished to find a girl in their beds, who is pretty, and who was sleeping across 3 beds. Grumpy considers all females to be full of poison and wicked wiles. Snow White wakes up and realizes that the house belongs to 7 dwarfs. The dwarfs, especially Grumpy wants Snow White to leave, but she tells them about how the Queen wants her dead and pleads to be allowed to stay. Grumpy says that the Queen is mean and vicious and will take vengeance on the dwarfs if she finds that they are sheltering Snow White. Snow White says that the Queen doesn't know where she is.
She says she will clean the house and cook them meals in exchange. She remembers that she has left soup downstairs and rushes to prepare it, ordering the dwarfs to wash while they wait. She wouldn't serve the meals till the dwarfs have cleaned themselves properly. Doc leads the dwarfs out to the washing area and teaches them what to do. Grumpy resists and all the dwarfs gang up to put him in the water and wash him up. The dwarfs grow to love their unexpected visitor. Snow White maintains the house for the dwarfs while they mine for jewels during the day and at night, they all sing, play music, and dance.
Snow White tells them how she and the prince fell in love with each other. Grumpy still doesn't like Snow White. The Dwarfs decide to sleep downstairs, allowing her to sleep in their beds, where she, looking towards the window, says thankful prayers about her and their protection, and wishes for Grumpy to like her more. The Queen finds through her magic mirror that Snow white is still alive and tells her the location of the hut in the jungle where Snow White is staying. The magic mirror says that the Huntsman had given her a pig's heart. Furious at being tricked she descends a spiral staircase, entering her dungeon, where she resolves to do away with Snow White herself.
She concocts a magic potion with the dark of the night, mummy's dust, a witch's cackle, the fright of scream, the wind of hate and a thunderbolt to mix it all. The Queen turns herself into an ugly old hag. She then poisons an apple with the "Sleeping Death" potion that puts the victim into a limitless sleep. She learns from her potions book that the poison's curse can be broken by "love's first kiss," but is certain that Snow White will be buried alive before this can happen. The Queen disguised as the old hag goes to the cottage while the dwarfs are away. As the dwarfs leave for the mine in the morning, Snow White kisses each one on the forehead, though Grumpy initially resists. He warns her not to let any strangers into the cottage. Snow White now knows that Grumpy cares for her and gives him a kiss on his forehead. Grumpy is flushed and starts liking Snow White. The Queen arrives when Snow White was baking a pie for Grumpy with the animals. The Queen offers her the poisoned apple, which she is about to accept until the animals, sensing danger from the vultures, try to attack her. This causes Snow White to take pity on her and she takes her into the cottage. The dwarfs return with the animals as the Queen leaves the cottage, and give chase, trapping her on a cliff. She tries to roll a boulder onto them, but lightning strikes the cliff before she can do so, causing her to fall and get crushed to death by the boulder. In their cottage, the dwarfs find Snow White asleep by the poison. Back at the cottage, the dwarfs and animals hold a vigil for their sleeping Snow White. Grumpy sobs, feeling sorry for how he mistreated Snow White, and Dopey sobs, being the one who loved her most of all.
Unwilling to bury her in the ground, they instead place her in a glass coffin in the forest. Together with the animals, they keep watch over her. The following spring, the prince (Harry Stockwell) learns of Snow White's eternal sleep and visits the coffin. Saddened by her apparent death, he kisses her, which breaks the spell and awakens her. The dwarfs and animals all rejoice as the prince takes Snow White to his castle.