movieId: 910
title: Some Like It Hot
year: 1959
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0053291/
ratingValue: 
directors: Billy Wilder
actors: Marilyn Monroe, Tony Curtis, Jack Lemmon, George Raft, Pat O'Brien, Joe E. Brown, Nehemiah Persoff, Joan Shawlee, Billy Gray

synopsis:
It is February 1929 in the city of Chicago. The whole city is under prohibition orders and any sale or purchase of liquor is deemed illegal. The mafia run a booze business by using a funeral parlor as a front and transporting liquor bottles in hearses, hidden inside the coffins. The police are always on the lookout to put the bootleggers out of business. Joe (Tony Curtis) is a jazz saxophone player, irresponsible gambler and ladies' man; his friend Jerry (Jack Lemmon) is a sensible jazz double-bass player.
They work in a speakeasy joint (place where alcoholic beverages are illegally sold, especially such establishments in the United States during Prohibition (1920-33)) owned by local Mafia boss "Spats" Colombo (George Raft). Tipped off by informant "Toothpick" Charlie (George E. Stone), the police raid the joint. Joe and Jerry escape, but later witness Spats and his henchmen gunning down Toothpick and his gang in revenge (an incident inspired by the Saint Valentine's Day Massacre). Spats and his gang see them as they flee.
Joe and Jerry were counting on their paycheck to pay rent and to payoff their creditors. Joe and Jerry meet their agent Sig Poliakoff (Billy Gray) and his secretary Nellie (Barbara Drew) to get a new gig, but all they have is a 3 week girl band assignment in Florida.
Penniless and in a rush to get out of town, the two musicians take a job with Sweet Sue (Joan Shawlee) and her Society Syncopators, an all-female band headed to Miami by train. The band was looking for female bass and saxophone players as their regular girls ran away with their boyfriends just before the band was about to leave. Disguised as women and calling themselves Josephine and Daphne, they board a train with the band and their male manager, Bienstock (Dave Barry). Before they board the train, Joe and Jerry notice Sugar Kane, the band's vocalist and ukulele player. Joe and Jerry become enamored of Sugar (Marilyn Monroe) and compete for her affection while maintaining their disguises. Sugar secretly drinks alcohol and is full of life. Sugar's liquor flask is found by Bienstock, and he starts to admonish her as she has been found drunk before. But Daphne steps forward and says that it is her flask, thereby saving Sugar. Sugar confides that she has sworn off male saxophone players, who have stolen her heart in the past and left her with "the fuzzy end of the lollipop". She has set her sights on finding a sweet, bespectacled millionaire in Florida. During the forbidden drinking and partying on the train, Josephine and Daphne become intimate friends with Sugar and have to struggle to remember that they are girls and cannot make a pass at her. Once in Miami, Joe woos Sugar by assuming a second disguise as a millionaire named Junior, the heir to Shell Oil, while feigning disinterest in Sugar. An actual millionaire, an aging mama's boy, the much-married Osgood Fielding III (Joe E. Brown), tries repeatedly to pick up Daphne, who rebuffs him. Daphne's refusals only increase his appetite. Osgood invites Daphne for a champagne supper on his yacht. Joe convinces Daphne to keep Osgood occupied onshore so that Junior can take Sugar to Osgood's yacht, passing it off as his. Once on the yacht, Junior explains to Sugar that, due to psychological trauma, he is impotent and frigid, but that he would marry anyone who could change that. Sugar tries to arouse some sexual response in Junior and begins to succeed. Meanwhile, Daphne and Osgood dance the tango till dawn. When Joe and Jerry get back to the hotel, Jerry explains that Osgood has proposed marriage to Daphne and that he, as Daphne, has accepted, anticipating an instant divorce and huge cash settlement when his ruse is revealed. Joe convinces Jerry that he cannot actually marry Osgood. The hotel hosts a conference for the "Friends of Italian Opera Society", a front for a national Mafia meeting presided over by "Little Bonaparte". Spats and his gang recognize Joe and Jerry as the witnesses they have been looking for. Fearing for their lives, Joe and Jerry realize they must quit the band and leave the hotel. Joe conceals his deception from Sugar by telling her over the telephone that "Junior" must marry a woman of his father's choosing and move to Venezuela. Sugar becomes distressed and heartbroken. Joe and Jerry evade Spats' men by hiding under a table at the syndicate banquet, where Little Bonaparte (Nehemiah Persoff) roasts Spats and has him and his men killed. Joe and Jerry flee through the hotel after being spotted. Joe, dressed as Josephine, sees Sugar onstage singing a lament to lost love. He runs onto the platform and kisses her, causing her to realize that Josephine and Junior were the same person. Jerry persuades Osgood to take "Daphne" and "Josephine" away on his yacht. Sugar runs from the stage at the end of her performance and jumps aboard Osgood's launch just as it is leaving the dock. Joe confesses the truth to Sugar and tells her that she deserves better, but Sugar wants him anyway, realizing he is the first man to genuinely care for her. Meanwhile, Jerry tries to get out of his engagement by listing reasons why "Daphne" and Osgood cannot marry, none of which bother Osgood. Exasperated, Jerry rips off his wig and says, "I'm a man!" in his normal voice; still smiling, Osgood replies "Well, nobody's perfect," confounding Jerry and leaving him speechless.