movieId: 2956
title: Someone to Watch Over Me
year: 1987
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0094008/
ratingValue: 
directors: Ridley Scott
actors: Tom Berenger, Mimi Rogers, Lorraine Bracco, Jerry Orbach, John Rubinstein, Andreas Katsulas, Tony DiBenedetto, James E. Moriarty, Mark Moses, Daniel Hugh Kelly

synopsis:
Mike and Ellie Keegan are both New York cops, although Ellie quit to be a stay-home mom to their son Tommy. They live in a house near the El but are planning to buy a nicer home. Mike is called in to investigate a homicide. Claire Gregory, a beautiful and wealthy socialite, witnessed a murder committed by notorious gangster Joey Venza. Since her life is in danger, she must be guarded at her penthouse home. Mike draws the night shift and is not happy about it. Claire's snobbish boyfriend treats him like dirt and he has to sit outside in the foyer all night. One night Claire comes out all dressed up and says she is going to a reception. Mike must accompany her and Claire says his tie isn't right. They stop at a shop to buy a new one, which is quite expensive but Claire puts it on her account. Despite himself, Mike finds himself developing feelings for her. He also begins to unfavorably compare her to Ellie. It isn't long before he is spending the night with her when he is supposed to be guarding her. Ellie and Mike go to dinner and he criticizes her for not acting like a lady. Then he confesses his affair with Claire, leaving Ellie heartbroken. He moves in with a fellow cop who is divorced. Joey Venza finds a way to get into the building. One of the tenants goes jogging every day at dusk and Joey, dressed in similar clothing, knifes him and takes his place. Mike's replacement shows up and Venza kills him. Mike feels terrible because the cop was his good friend. He is placed on suspension and ordered to stay away from Claire until the case is closed. All his cop friends turn against him. When he sees Tommy for visitation, his son will barely speak to him. There is one more social function that Claire must attend; then she is going away. But Venza is still out there. He breaks into Ellie's home and holds her hostage. Mike and Claire rush over and there is a shootout. Ellie, the former cop, kills Venza. Mike now realizes what a mistake he's made and that he still loves Ellie. Claire watches them embrace before climbing back into her car and driving away.