movieId: 7348
title: Spartan
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0360009/
ratingValue: 
directors: David Mamet
actors: Tia Texada, Derek Luke, Val Kilmer, Jeremie Campbell, Bob Jennings, Lionel Mark Smith, Johnny Messner, Chris LaCentra, Renato Magno, Mark FitzGerald

synopsis:
Bobby Scott is a former Force Recon Master Gunnery Sergeant, acting as a selection cadre member for Delta Force. While observing a "stress phase" exercise designed to evaluate Delta candidates, Scott meets recruit Curtis and Sergeant Jacqueline Black, an edged-weapons ("knife-fighting") instructor. Sergeant Black and Curtis each demonstrate their competence, and make plain to Scott their ambitions to serve on future missions. During the stress phase run through a forest, Curtis becomes winded chasing Black. Scott tells him that if he isn't up to a strenuous run like this one, he should turn in his recruit patch and quit. Curtis resumes his chase of Black. Later, Curtis participates in a hand-to-hand fight with another recruit drawn from a hat where the winner will be allowed to join the Delta unit. Before he leaves cadre Scott is drawn into a clandestine operation to find and recover the President's daughter, Laura Newton. The team has two days before the media reports her missing from her classes at Harvard. One of the Secret Service agents who let Laura slip away commits suicide during his interrogation, having not been effectively frisked when he was apprehended. The team begins investigating one of her philandering professors and her boyfriend, with whom she fought shortly before her abduction. Their argument drove her to a bar where girls are recruited as prostitutes, and they follow a middleman to a bordello that funnels some of the girls to an international sex slavery ring. The madam sends them to a pay phone, which leads Scott and Curtis to a beach house. Curtis takes up a sniper's position close by while Scott tries to bluff his way past one man in the house. A second man starts firing, forcing Curtis to kill. Scott kills the first in self-defense before they can learn anything more. Calls placed to the pay phone are traced back to Tariq Asani, a Lebanese national in a federal prison. Scott agrees to do whatever it takes to get the girl back, and under orders from Robert Burch, the head of the investigation, they plan to stage a robbery to intercept Asani during a prisoner transport to a medical facility. At a gas station en route Scott appears to kill the transport guard then kills the other inmate (who was on death row) but spares Asani when he says he can get them on a plane out of the country that night. Then Asani offers Scott a girl, as thanks for his help, and with a little digging from Scott confirms the sex slavery ring is based in Dubai and that Asani is one of their chief traffickers. Scott stops at a convenience store to relay the information to the team and gets ammunition from Curtis, but when Curtis turns to get more ammunition from another member of the team, Asani sees his badge and opens fire from the parking lot with a stolen shotgun. Curtis is wounded and Scott kills Asani. As the team prepares a stealthy assault on the ring's base in Dubai, a news broadcast reports that Laura and her college professor were discovered drowned while sailing off the coast of Martha's Vineyard and consequently, the rescue operation is called off. Scott returns home, but Curtis finds him and persuades him that she couldn't have been killed in the boating accident because he found an earring on the porch of the boathouse identical to those she is wearing in a photograph. He also discovered a "sign" there too; an emoji that Laura's boyfriend confirmed she'd use often. When Scott and Curtis return to the beach house to investigate, Curtis is killed by a sniper on a nearby trawler, and Scott finds Laura's emoji in the grime of a window in the boathouse. Scott uses a decorative scarecrow dressed in his own coat to fool the sniper and tries to contact Laura's mother with the evidence, but is prevented by a Secret Service agent. When he shows her the earring, the agent explains that for years the President has used his visits to his daughter as a cover for extramarital affairs, and he pulled Laura's Secret Service detail to use as extra protection for himself during the trip. The agent pleads with Scott to rescue Laura, telling him that she was closer to Laura than her own parents, both of whom are purely political animals who agreed to fake Laura's death rather than deal with the fallout from the public learning the truth. As evidence, the agent gives Scott a set of photo-booth photographs of herself with Laura as a child. Scott enlists Sgt. Black to help him rescue Laura from Dubai, and, cut off from his team, turns to Avi, a former Israeli operative now working in the private sector. Avi agrees to get Scott into Dubai and get Laura out concealed in a cargo container, obtaining weapons for him and support from a man named "Jones," an Australian mercenary. While casing the house where Laura is being held, the two are suddenly forced to act when they see Laura's captors bringing her out early. Jones is killed during the rescue but Scott flees with Laura to a safe house, where he persuades her that although he is alone he is acting under orders: "One riot, one ranger." She remembers that the king of Sparta would respond to requests for help from neighboring kingdoms by sending one man, and decides to trust him. When he takes Laura to the airport to seal her in the cargo container he discovers he is being tracked when he finds a transmitter in his knife, and he rushes her out of the container just as his old team arrives to apprehend them. Scott is shot and separated from Laura, who is captured and bustled off toward a plane. Scott is pursued by Stoddard, who shouts that Laura could've lived in captivity but will be killed to maintain the cover story. When Laura fights her captor she reveals herself as Sgt. Black, and shows her the photos from the Secret Service agent (her 'real' mother), convincing her to stop struggling. Laura's screams have drawn the attention of a Swedish news crew about to board their plane. Sgt. Black ignores Stoddard and delivers Laura to their jet before she is shot by Stoddard. The journalists recognize Laura and get her safely aboard, and Scott slits Stoddard's throat just as the jet takes off. Afterwards, from a city street, Scott sees a news broadcaster on television in a shop window saying Laura's death was faked as a cover for her rescue. Burch spins the story of Laura's kidnapping as an opportunity for the President, and the U.S. Government, to take action to end the trafficking of American girls as sex slaves. Scott smiles as the man watching beside him mumbles that it's time to go home, and he walks away, with the rumble of a London double-decker behind him.