movieId: 1556
title: Speed 2: Cruise Control
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120179/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jan de Bont
actors: Sandra Bullock, Jason Patric, Willem Dafoe, Temuera Morrison, Brian McCardie, Christine Firkins, Mike Hagerty, Colleen Camp, Lois Chiles, Francis Guinan

synopsis:
Los Angeles Police Department (L.A.P.D.) officer Alex Shaw ( Jason Patric ) is on a motorcycle chase after a vehicle with stolen goods. Annie Porter ( Sandra Bullock ) was having her driving test to finally get a license and reveals to her driving test evaluating person Mr. Kenter ( Tim Conway ) that her last boyfriend Jack Traven was not very romantic. Two years ago on her birthday, he gifted her pepper spray, which she thought was perfume and ended up in the emergency room. Annie is a terrible driver, ignoring almost every hazardous driving condition in her path. She is soon being followed by the L.A.P.D. who ask her to pull over. Alex eventually catches the driver of the vehicle, but his girlfriend Annie runs into him during her driving test. Annie fails her driving test as the evaluating person says that she will never drive in this town again. As Alex emerges from the chaos of apprehending and arresting the perpetrator, Annie finds out that Alex is on the S.W.A.T. team. Alex had lied and informed her he was a beach police officer driving a bicycle in Venice. Annie is angered as she didn't want to date anyone on the S.W.A.T. team after her relationship with Jack. Jack was always putting himself in life threatening situations and Annie was done with this. As an apology, Alex surprises her with a cruise to the Caribbean, on the cruise ship Seabourn Legend. The crew includes the ship's photographer Dante (Royale Watkins), bellboy Ashton ( Jeremy Hotz ) and others. Alex had planned to propose to Annie during the cruise and had even picked out a ring for the occasion. Aboard the ship, deranged passenger John Geiger ( Willem Dafoe ), a former employee of the cruise company, places explosives throughout the ship. Geiger had smuggled the explosives and detonators on board the ship in his golf club set. Geiger had used his own computers to hack into the ship's computers and had extracted the entire layout and schematics of the ship. Geiger sneaks into the engine room and hacks into the computerized ship stabilization system as well. Geiger pretends to be drunk and lost and enter the bridge and plants a bug there as well. Later, the next morning, Ashton enters Geiger's room to make up his bed and finds the hacking system laid out. Geiger has no option but to knock him unconscious with a hit from his golf club. The following evening, Geiger sets the explosives off to destroy the ship's communication systems. He throws Captain Pollard ( Bo Svenson ) overboard, then hacks into the ship's computer system to stop the ship. He sets off additional explosives to blow up two of the ship's engines, then calls the bridge to inform the first officer, Juliano ( Temuera Morrison ), that the captain is dead and Juliano is now in charge. He is ordered by Geiger to evacuate the ship, during which Geiger steals jewelry from the ship's vault. While passengers evacuate, Drew ( Christine Firkins ), a young deaf girl, becomes trapped in an elevator, and group of people become trapped behind locked fire doors in a hallway filling up with smoke. Annie and Alex attempt to board the last lifeboat; however, the ship starts moving and the winch lowering the lifeboat gets jammed. Alex jumps onto the boat to rescue the passengers falling off, and Annie and Juliano use the ship's gangplank to get the passengers back onto the deck. Alex realizes Geiger is controlling the ship and goes with Juliano to Geiger's cabin armed with skeet guns, but Geiger remotely sets off explosives inside the room. Annie and Dante notice the passengers trapped behind the fire doors, and Annie uses a chainsaw to cut the door open and facilitate their escape. Meanwhile, Alex orders the navigator, Merced ( Brian McCardie ), to flood the ship and slow her down by opening the ballast doors. As the ship floods, Alex sees Drew on a monitor after she climbed out of the elevator and runs to save her. Alex notices Geiger exiting the vault and holds him at gunpoint, but Geiger escapes by closing the fire door in front of Alex. Using the ship's intercom, Geiger explains that he designed the ship's autopilot system and is taking revenge against the cruise line after being dismissed once he became sick from copper poisoning. Geiger again escapes from Alex by attaching a grenade to a door. The crew notice that Geiger has programmed the ship to crash into an oil tanker off the coast of Saint Martin. Alex decides to stop the ship by diving underneath her and jamming the propeller with a steel cable. Geiger realizes Alex is attempting to stop the ship, so he jams the cable winch while Alex is underwater, causing it to break off the ship and free the cable. Soon after, Geiger takes Annie hostage and escapes with her on a lifeboat from the back of the ship. To avoid collision with the oil tanker, Alex and Dante venture into the ship's bilge pump room and use the bow thrusters to turn the ship. The ship screeches down the side of the tanker, but manages to withstand the damage, and heads straight into a marina before she crashes into an island, which eventually brings the ship to a halt. Alex jumps off to rescue Annie and hijacks a speed boat from Maurice ( Glenn Plummer ), forcing him to chase after Annie. Geiger has forcibly dragged Annie onto a seaplane. He employs a harpoon gun to tether himself to the plane from the boat and reels himself into through the water. Eventually, he climbs onto the plane and retrieves Annie, and both escape on one of the plane's floats, which delicately lands on the ocean surface. Geiger attempts to escape over the oil tanker but loses control of the plane, which becomes impaled on the tanker's foremast. In the ensuing explosion, both vehicles are destroyed and Geiger perishes. However, the members of the tanker crew have fortunately launched their lifeboat just before the destruction. As the couple return to shore in the speed boat, Alex gives Annie an engagement ring, proposing marriage, and she happily accepts.