movieId: 5504
title: Spy Kids 2: Island of Lost Dreams
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0287717/
ratingValue: 
directors: Robert Rodriguez
actors: Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino, Alexa PenaVega, Daryl Sabara, Steve Buscemi, Mike Judge, Danny Trejo, Cheech Marin, Matt O'Leary, Emily Osment

synopsis:
The OSS now has a full child spy section and Carmen Cortez (Alexa PenaVega) and Juni Cortez (Daryl Sabara) have become agents of the OSS. Carmen and Juni are children Gregorio (Antonio Banderas) and Ingrid Cortez (Carla Gugino), who are OSS spies in their worn right.
They face particularly hard competition with Gary (Matt O'Leary) and Gerti Giggles (Emily Osment), the children of double-dealing agent Donnagon Giggles (Mike Judge), whom Carmen and Juni helped to rescue in the previous film. It is shown that Carmen defends Gary and has a crush on him. In an incident at a local amusement park, where the President's daughter Alexandra (Taylor Momsen) deliberately sabotages a thrill ride which juggles its passengers, forcing the Giggles and the Cortez kids to compete in the rescue. Alexandra deliberately put herself in danger to attract the attention of her father, who neglects her. Alexandra had also stolen the Transmooker from the President (Christopher McDonald). Juni rescues Alexandram while Gary takes the Transmooker. Carmen and Gerti work together to disable the ride and to save all the passengers.
The Cortez's are hoping that Gregorio will be named Director of the OSS at a major award function. At the award ceremony, Donnagon - who has somehow hacked into the teleprompter which the President was reading from - is named the director of the OSS. Donnagon felicitates Gary and Gerti for saving Alexandra, gives them level one OSS badges, and gives them highly coveted assignments.
At the award function, all the adults are knocked unconscious after they drink the wine. Only the spy kids are not impacted as they don't drink the wine. The function is infiltrated by enemy agents who steals the Transmooker from the President and escape in their ship. Juni is fired after being framed by Gary - who was actually to blame - into losing the "Transmooker", a highly coveted device which can shut off all electronic devices.
Carmen and Juni activate spy devices inside the OSS office and find that the enemy ship was last located near a mysterious Island, where people reported exotic animals in the vicinity. The kids contact Fegan Floop (Alan Cumming) & Minion (Tony Shalhoub) to get the history on Donnagon. Minion says that Donnagon cannot be trusted and it seems that he is trying to steal the Transmooker.
In his new position as director, Donnagon can carry on with his plan to steal the Transmooker, so he can rule the world. After Carmen manages to hack into the database and reinstates Juni's level as an agent, she and Juni follow the trail to a mysterious island near China, which is home to Romero (Steve Buscemi), a lunatic scientist. Machete helps the Cortez kids to get fully outfitted for their mission.
The Cortez kids reach the Island in their submarine, but the submarine shuts down as they near the island. The kids escape the submarine in their underwater suits and land on the island. The Island is surrounded by mysterious monsters. Meanwhile, Donnagon figures out that the Cortez kids are going after the Island and informs the parents that their kids are lost. Gregorio and Ingrid immediately swing into action trying to locate their children. They are joined by Ingrid's parents (Ricardo Montalban) and (Holland Taylor), who are top notch spies in their own right.
The Giggle kids also follow the Cortez kids to the Island. None of the spy gadgets work on the Island so both team of kids are on their own.
The Cortez kids climb to the volcano in the middle of the island and fall in. They reach a hidden chamber inside the volcano, where they meet Romero. Romero has been attempting to create genetically miniaturized animals, so he can make a profit by selling the animals to kids. He also perfected the science to create cross animals with physical features from different species.
He had an experiment go wrong after accidentally pouring growth concoction onto the mutated set of animals. Romero is using the Transmooker device to keep his Island invisible to the outside world.
The Cortez kids rescue the Giggles kids from the Island monsters and bring them to Romero.
Romero reveals that he works for a man named Donnogan. The Cortez kids figure out that Donnagon is really after the Transmooker device. Gary refuses to believe that his father is the villain here. The Cortez parents track Carmen and Juni with non-electrical implants in their dental work. The Cortez kids decide to destroy the Transmooker device before Donnagon gets to the Island. But the device is hidden on the other side of the Island and very well protected. The Giggles kids follow the Cortezes.
The Cortez kids figure out that Donnagon wants the whole family killed together, so nobody can stop him. Carmen knew about the dental implants and destroys them so that their parents cannot track them.
The Cortez parents are still able to track them with a tracer that Grandpa Cortez had put in Juni's necklace.
The Cortez kids enter an antechamber under the Island and continue their quest for the Transmooker. After a number of action sequences, such as fighting skeletons and other monsters, Carmen is captured by a Spork, which is quite literally a flying pig and dropped into an Eagle nest.
Carmen meets Gerti there who tells her that Gary is really evil, and Carmen changes her feelings for Gary and sides with Juni who was going to be hurt by Gary. Donnagon reaches the Island as the Cortez kids take away the Transmooker and head to the beach.
The spy kids - along with the help of their family, Romero and Gerti Giggles - destroy the Transmooker and defeat Donnagon and Gary but Gregorio and Donnagon fight each other. Donnagon is relieved by the President and Gary is disavowed, while Juni quits due to the impersonal treatment of agents by the OSS.
During the credits, Machete (Danny Trejo) has Carmen sing as an undercover pop star in a concert. Carmen says she can't sing so Machete gives her a mic which auto-tunes her voice and a belt that helps her dance. He also gives Juni a guitar that plays itself.
After the performance, Machete informs Carmen that he had not put the batteries in and Carmen was actually singing.