movieId: 6566
title: Spy Kids 3: Game Over
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0338459/
ratingValue: 
directors: Robert Rodriguez
actors: Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino, Alexa PenaVega, Daryl Sabara, Ricardo Montalban, Holland Taylor, Sylvester Stallone, Mike Judge, Salma Hayek, Matt O'Leary

synopsis:
Juni Cortez, (Daryl Sabara) no longer an agent of the OSS, now works as a private detective but gets little profit for his work ($4.99). Juni's assignments include saving cats from trees, finding lost toys, and to generally helping people when and where they need it. Juni was saving his money to buy a copy of the biggest virtual reality game called "Game Over" that was going to be on sale from that midnight on-wards. The game promised untold riches and prizes for people who successfully complete level 5. Juni and Carmen are kids of Gregorio (Antonio Banderas) and Ingrid Cortez (Carla Gugino) both OSS agents in their own right. Felix (Cheech Marin) is their uncle. Gregorio and Ingrid are often on assignment thus leaving the kids alone back at the house. One day, Juni is contacted by President Devlin (George Clooney), the former head of the OSS and informed that his sister, Carmen Cortez, (Alexa Vega) is missing. He is reunited with Donnagon Giggles (Mike Judge) an OSS former director, now technician and his wife Francesca (Salma Hayek), who explain that Carmen was captured by the Toymaker (Sylvester Stallone), a former OSS informant who was imprisoned in cyberspace. The Toymaker has since created "Game Over" a virtual reality-based video game which he intends to use to take control of children's minds and the world's youth via players that reach Level 5, which is literally unwinnable. Carmen was sent into the game to shut it down and prevent its mass release. Physically, Carmen is in the OSS building, but her mind is trapped inside the game. Carmen went in alone as their backup choice Juni did not pick up OSS calls. Juni must venture into the game, save Carmen who is stuck on level 4, and shut down the game.
Juni agrees to take up the OSS assignment to save Carmen. Juni has 12 hours to complete the mission. In the game, which takes place in a full 3D environment, Juni finds the challenges difficult. Juni is dropped from a height by another player, causing him to lose a life. Juni realizes that he has 9 lives and when the count hits zero, it is game over for him. No resets or restarts. He finds three beta-testers, Francis (Bobby Edner), Arnold (Ryan Pinkston) and Rez (Robert Vito), who launch him to the moon so that they'll have less competition on the way to Level 5. On the moon, having already lost two of his nine lives, Juni receives an opportunity to bring in a fellow ally to assist him, selecting his wheelchair-using maternal grandfather Valentin (Ricardo Montalbán), who has been looking for the Toymaker for years. Valentin is a paraplegic and receives a power-up which gives him a robotic suit allowing him to walk and possess superhuman strength. Juni ventures into a robot battle arena where he fights a girl named Demetra (Courtney Jines) in order to return to Earth and Level 2. He receives a robotic suit and loses another life but is able to defeat her. He meets the beta-testers again who believe he is a player named "The Guy", who can supposedly beat Level 5. Rez is unconvinced and challenges Juni to a "Mega-race" involving a multitude of different vehicles. The only apparent rule of this game is "Win, at all costs." Juni wins the race with help from Valentin, and Demetra joins the group, she and Juni display romantic feelings for each other, with him gifting her extra lives meant for him and her providing him with an illegal map of the game. Upon entering level 3, Arnold and Juni are forced to battle each other, the loser getting an immediate game over. Juni loses almost all of his lives, but Demetra swaps places with him and is defeated, getting an immediate Game Over. With only half of his last life remaining, Juni is upset, but his grandpa reminds him not to fall in love with a game. At Level 4, Juni reunites with Carmen. Carmen tells Juni that the Toymaker is the reason their grandfather uses a wheelchair. Juni follows a map given to him by Demetra to a lava-filled gorge. The group surf their way through the lava. Fearing that Valentin might seek revenge and release the Toymaker, Donnagon attempts to prevent the group from reaching Level 5 but fails.
Outside the door to Level 5, after the other gamer start to think that Carmen and Juni are the deceivers and Rez threatening to give Juni a game over, the real "Guy" (Elijah Wood) appears and opens the door only to get a game over by an electrical shock (losing all of his apparently 99 lives). Demetra appears, claiming to have got back into the game via a glitch but Carmen identifies her as The Deceiver, a program used to fool players, and she is not a real person. Demetra confirms this and apologizes to Juni. The Toymaker attacks the group with giant robot, intending to keep them trapped in the game forever. Demetra sheds a tear and shuts the game down so Juni and the others can return to reality. However, it is revealed that Valentin released the Toymaker into the real world with them, the villain's army of robots attacking a nearby city. Juni and Carmen summon their family members: Parents Gregorio and Ingrid, Gregorio's brother Isador "Machete" Cortez (Danny Trejo), their Grandma Helga (Holland Taylor), and Uncle Felix. With too many robots to handle, Juni calls out to their "extended" family, summoning characters from the first two films including Fegan Floop (Alan Cumming) the host of Floop's Fooglies and Alexander Minion (Tony Shalhoub) Floop's assistant, Dinky Winks (Bill Paxton) the owner of the theme park Troublemakers and his son, scientist Romero (Steve Buscemi) (plus a Spork), and Gary (Matt O'Leary) and Gerti Giggles (Emily Osment) the kids of Donnagon Giggles. The robots are destroyed except the Toymaker's. Valentin confronts Sebastian the Toymaker and reveals that it was he who put him in the wheelchair, but forgives Sebastian the Toymaker for his actions, which is why he was perching on his shoulders all those years.
Sebastian the Toymaker shuts down his robot and joins the rest of the Cortez family and their friends to celebrate their family.