movieId: 1232
title: Stalker
year: 1979
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0079944/
ratingValue: 
directors: Andrei Tarkovsky
actors: Alisa Freyndlikh, Aleksandr Kaydanovskiy, Anatoliy Solonitsyn, Nikolay Grinko, Natalya Abramova, Faime Jurno, Evgeniy Kostin, Raimo Rendi

synopsis:
As Nobel Price-winning Professor Wallace states on the opening text card, "The Zone" is a miraculous place located outside an unidentified city, the result of a meteorite impact or an extra-terrestrial incursion. The State has sent in people to investigate, but none returned, so they closed it off from the outside world with barbed wire, and it is closely guarded by armed police and soldiers. A "stalker" is a guide who takes people through The Zone. Part I "Stalker" opens with the credits rolling on the background showing of a shabby bar, all in monochrome yellow. An atmosphere of despair is reinforced by a strange electronic music. The next scene shows a table with a couple of glasses. Due to tremors caused by a nearby passing train, one of the glasses moves over the table, which is revealed to be standing inside a dingy room where three figures, a man, a woman, and a child, are asleep together in a wrought iron bed. Next to the bed is a pair of crutches. The man slowly gets up, dresses, goes to the kitchen sink and washes himself. The woman, his wife (Alisa Frejndlikh), joins him and scolds him for returning to his old ways, which will surely land him back in the jail where he has just served 5 years, making him all but a stranger to their daughter. The man argues that everywhere is a prison to him, that he must go, and he finally pushes her aside and leaves the room. As he leaves, his wife curses the day she ever met him and reproaches him for having begotten such a child. She falls to the ground, weeping. The man, Stalker (Aleksandr Kajdanovsky), goes to the waterfront to meet with a couple, a well-dressed woman and a man, Writer (Anatoli Solonitsyn). The woman plans to come along but Stalker rudely dismisses her and, together with Writer, walks back to the bar shown in the opening of the film, where a third man, Professor (Nikolai Grinko), is waiting for them, who explains that he is a physicist. No sooner as the two meet that they start bickering with each other, expressing their disdain for each other's respective professions (art versus science) and aspirations. Writer explains that the reason for his trip is to get his lost inspiration back, while Professor's motivation is purely scientific curiosity. Stalker will guide these two men illegally through The Zone, so he and the two men leave the bar and enter a car. They drive through a desolate urban landscape of broken down and abandoned buildings, littered potholed streets, carefully avoiding police patrols. Writer confesses that getting inspiration is not his real motive to go to The Zone, but admits that his true reasons are also unknown to himself, and that his desire must be something unconscious. After some time, sneaking behind a train, the men enter through open gates into the buffer area around The Zone. They hide for a while, and follow the train again as it passes through a military check-point with goods to the men stationed there, all the while being shot at. They will be safe as soon as they leave the checkpoint, as the soldiers will be too afraid to follow them into The Zone. They take refuge in an abandoned building, and Stalker asks Writer to go ahead to look for a railway flatbed car, which will take them inside The Zone itself. Writer loses his nerves and turns around right away, having second thoughts about continuing the trip, so Professor calmly volunteers for the mission and locates the car. All three men journey on the flatbed car silently and solemnly through changing landscape in a single three-and-a-half minute odyssey into the The Zone. As they reach, the film turns from monochrome yellow to full color. There is a striking contrast between the lush green landscape of The Zone that is littered with old tanks and abandoned buildings, and the dilapidated surroundings previously encountered. The atmosphere is quiet, except for the calls of cuckoo birds heard in the far. "There we are... home, at last," says Stalker. He proceeds to illustrate the peculiarities of The Zone by mentioning another stalker, his former mentor, nicknamed Porcupine, who once trampled and buried a flowerbed in mud, yet the smell of the flowers lingered for years. Now the flowers have grown back but their smell is gone. Porcupine, formerly known as Teacher, used to guide people into The Zone, but was then "punished" and left a broken man. Before absenting himself for a short walk, Stalker hands Professor some white cloth and some steel nuts, and tells him to tie a piece of this gauze to each of the nuts. During his absence, Writer and Professor discuss Stalker and his imprisonment, and share a rumor that he was mutilated by The Zone, and that his daughter was allegedly born deformed without legs. Concerning the story of Porcupine, Professor tells Writer that Porcupine reportedly came out of The Room one day and became rich almost overnight, but then hanged himself a week later. Professor also questions a meteorite impact as the origin of The Zone; he calls it a gift to humanity (implying an extra-terrestrial intelligence), as there is supposedly a room inside The Zone that is said to grant the deepest wish of anybody who enters it. Stalker returns and sends the flatbed car back the same way it came over the objections of the other men, reasoning that one can never take the same road back in The Zone. Their journey through The Zone begins, and all along, Stalker repeatedly relates how dangerous and tricky the place is, and that it demands respect. Rules that apply outside The Zone are no longer valid inside it; for example, a straight line between two points should be avoided due to the high risk of traps along the way, so a convoluted path needs to be taken. Every so often, Stalker throws one of the nuts to check if the path along that trajectory is safe to traverse. As they soon arrive in view of The Room, Writer rebels against the rules and proceeds straight on toward it, but stops short when he hears a voice warning him: "Stop, don't move." Writer returns precipitously to Stalker and Professor, who both swear that neither has spoken a word. Professor mocks Writer some more, suggesting that he said the words himself with a strange voice to save face. Stalker again reiterates the danger of The Zone and its deadly traps: The Zone responds to people because it is never the same upon revisiting, and traps are never in the exact same place as before. People have died on the threshold of The Room regardless of whether they were good or bad, as it seems to allow only unhappy people in who have lost all hope. But it nearly always punishes people who do not obey the rules, so Writer can consider himself lucky that he got off with a warning. Professor now gets apprehensive and refuses to go on, but Stalker dissuades him by saying that he will not make it by standing still without a guide either, and backtracking is impossible, so the group continues on. Part II After having made a rest-stop, Stalker pushes to continue, despite the Professor stating that he is tired. They proceed towards a dam as Stalker recites a poem in voice over about the merits of weakness: trees harden towards the ends of their lives, so strength is the companion of death, while suppleness and weakness express the freshness of living. Professor did not realize that the journey has already gone on, and mentions that he has forgotten his knapsack, and wants to go back to fetch it. Stalker tells him it is impossible because back-tracking is too dangerous, and that he can wish for as many knapsacks as soon as they are in The Room. They continue their journey through a flooded building, wading knee-deep toward a waterfall. Arriving at the cascade, Stalker notices that Professor is missing, and concludes that he foolishly went back to get his knapsack despite their warning. Stalker and Writer proceed, and as they pass through an archway in a tiled wall, they end up back at a previously passed spot, where a serene Professor is having a drink by a fire, with his knapsack nearby, just where he had previously left it. Stalker recognizes this as a trap, seeing one of Porcupine's old nuts marking it at the entrance. Overcome with fatigue, the men decide to rest, and lay their bodies down on the wet ground. Another argument ensues when Writer mocks Professor over the supposed importance of his knapsack, which leads into the two hurling bitter accusations at each other over going to The Zone just for personal glory in their respective fields (art and science). Tired of arguing, Writer asks Stalker if bringing all those other people to The Room made them happy, but Stalker doesn't know, as he never saw them again after leaving The Zone, and their wishes were not fulfilled immediately. He himself states to have no desire to enter The Room. A long, puzzling and complex scene follows, in so far as the positions and the spatial relationships between the three characters keep changing in unnatural ways as the men go in and out of sleep. There is water on the ground that contains strange items, including a syringe, a plate, a mirror, an aquarium with fishes, a sterilizer, an extractor, a religious icon, coins, some gauze, a gun, an industrial spring, a page from a calendar (dated the 28th), some metal parts, and some wire. Wherever someone is sleeping or dreaming, the film temporarily goes back to monochrome colors. The background of electronic music adds to the strangeness of the scene. A mysterious dog appears that walks around the men. Writer and Professor continue to criticize each other's fields of expertise, the unselfishness of art vs the merits of technology. A voice-over of Stalkers wife recites some biblical passage about apocalyptic events, as does Stalker. He then enters the discussion of the other men, mentioning music which is supposedly idealess and mechanic, yet this harmonization of noises penetrates the soul and unites people, and may therefore not be selfless at all. A quick cut shows the group arriving at a dark subterranean tunnel ("the Pipe"), dimly lit through holes in the ceiling and a floor covered with puddles. Writer reluctantly goes in, designated in a draw to go first, while the rest of the group follows at a safe distance. When Writer reaches a door, he pulls out a pistol, but Stalker convinces him that bringing in weapons in The Zone will get them killed (reminding him of all the destroyed tanks along the way), so Writer throws it away. Stalker asks Professor if he also brought a weapon; he denies it, stating that he brought an ampule with poison, for worst-case scenarios. Stalker wonders if the men have a secret death wish. They continue through the door, wadding chest-deep through filthy water, up a stairway and then through another door, and end up in a large room filled with piles of sand. Stalker throws a nut, which bounces off a few sand dunes. A bird flies in which suddenly disappears. Writer, who had proceeded in the wrong direction, stands next to a deep well yards away from the others. He drops in a large stone, which takes a long time to produce a hollow sound. Writer calls it another experiment to show the fabricated reality they are currently in, where normal facts do not apply. He again calls out Professor for his folly of wanting to understand who is fabricating this reality, a knowledge that will give him nothing. However, he then delivers a long monologue about the emptiness of his own life and the meaninglessness of his own work as a writer ("nobody needs me! I will croak, and in two days they will forget me and begin devouring somebody else"). Writer re-joins the others, and Stalker tells him how lucky he is for surviving another trap. They continue through the sand dune hall and arrive into a flooded old lab, filled with floating flasks and equipment. They rest in a small room with a telephone. Stalker again compliments Writer for surviving the Pipe, which is nicknamed the "meat grinder". It is the place where many people have perished, including Porcupine's brother. Stalker delivers a poem by the brother about mourning things that have passed over (actually written by Arseny Tarkovsky). Writer is getting impatient but Stalker expresses his gladness that both his clients are still alive (apparently a rare thing), meaning that they must be good people. Writer then claims that Stalker rigged the earlier draw into the Meatgrinder, to make sure that Writer would have to go in first. He accuses Stalker of favoring Professor, and questions his right to decide who gets to live or die. Stalker counters that the draw did not matter: Writer already survived the earlier trap with the waterfall, so he was sure that he would also make it through the Meatgrinder, and "somebody has to go first". Suddenly, the phone rings; the men seem barely surprised anymore, and Writer answers, informing the caller that "this isn't the clinic". Professor subsequently uses the phone to call his own office, telling a competing colleague that he has made it to The Room. The man threatens to report him to the State for what he is about to do, which will end his career, but Professor is unimpressed, and is simply gloating over conquering his fear of this colleague. The man accuses Professor of doing this "vileness" for herostratic fame (doing something just for the purpose of becoming famous), and for getting back at him for sleeping with the Professor's wife 20 years ago; he ends with threatening that his deed will haunt him forever, before Professor hangs up the phone. Professor explains that if knowledge of The Room's powers become widespread, it will attract droves of people to it; many self-proclaimed leaders with so-called best intentions, who will not wish for money or inspiration but for the power to rule and remake the world. Stalker claims that he would never lead such people into The Room, but Professor counters that there are more Stalkers, and none may be able to recognize people who have the means and willingness to seriously harm humanity. Writer interjects that no one could have such a huge love or hatred for the entire world: people may wish for money, women or harm to a single person, but the desire to rule the whole world is not a wish but an ideology; and unconscious compassion cannot yet be realized as a common instinctive desire. Stalker states that no one can be happy at the expense of somebody else's unhappiness. Writer replies that he is not afraid of Stalker or anyone else "destroying mankind with some kind of unimaginable benevolence", as people don't really know their deepest wish: "You dream about one thing, but you get something different." He also calls out Stalker's poetry and leading them in circles as a form of apology for his difficult childhood and social environment, but in a mockery of Jesus Christ, Writer puts on a crown of thorns, and tells Stalker he won't forgive him. Stalker leads the two men out and stops in a brightly illuminated room, at the threshold of the dark and smaller Room. The dog enters and two skeletons are seen lying in a corner. Choked with emotions, Stalker tells his companions that they are now about to experience the greatest moment in their lives. In The Room, they will be able to fulfill their most secret and sincere wish, "the one achieved through the most suffering"; they need to concentrate on the past, and truly believe. Writer refuses to go in first, because he does not wish to remember his past, and also because he feels to proud to be begging for a wish to be fulfilled. Professor then reveals the importance of his knapsack by producing a hand-held 20 kiloton nuclear bomb from it, made by him and his ex-colleagues. They don't believe that The Room can make anyone happy, but its power may fall in the hands of the wrong people. His colleagues got cold feet because of their reverence of The Zone, which, if not a miracle, is still part of nature and a source of hope. Although Professor is conflicted about causing irreversible damage, he still believes he needs to protect The Room from the wrong hands; otherwise, The Zone may stop him from succeeding. Stalker starts a desperate struggle with Professor to take the bomb away, but Writer intervenes several times, tearing and punching him away from the Professor. Stalker yells that he won't let them take away the only place of hope and faith for those who have none left. Writer accuses him of not caring for all those people, only for the money he earns from their grief; or the power that he feels from deciding who lives or dies in The Zone, which is the reason why Stalker does not need to go into The Room himself. A tearful Stalker defends himself by stating that Stalkers cannot enter The Room for selfish reasons, but he admits he is a failure to himself and to his wife. There is nothing for him outside The Zone, so taking it away from him means taking away all his happiness, freedom and dignity. All the people he brings to The Room are also unhappy and hopeless failures, but he can nevertheless be happy by helping them. Writer responds that Stalker misunderstands how The Room works, by asking him why Porcupine hanged himself; Stalker says he came to The Room for selfish purposes, sacrificing his brother in the Meatgrinder for money. Writer retorts that Porcupine could have simply returned and wished his brother back instead of more money. However, Porcupine learned that not all dreams come true in The Room, only the most precious ones according to our nature, our essence that we are unaware of but that rules our lives. Porcupine must have begged to get his brother back, but he could only get more money, which was his deepest desire, whereas his conscience about his brother was an invention of his brain. Writer refuses to enter The Room, not wanting any of his dark desires to be fulfilled and then hang himself; he'd rather drink himself to death. He thinks that Stalker is a poor judge of character if he leads people like Writer into The Zone; and how can he be sure that people's wishes are actually fulfilled here? Writer asks Professor if he ever met someone who came out of The Room happy, but in actuality, all they know of The Room comes from Stalker. The phone starts ringing again. Professor starts taking his bomb apart and throws the pieces in the water. He no longer understands and asks what the purpose of coming here was. Stalker contemplates leaving everything and bringing his wife and daughter into The Zone, where nobody will hurt them. The three men sit outside The Room looking inside, Writer with his arm over Stalkers shoulder, and Professor leaning against their backs, watching as it starts and stops raining inside The Room. In the final scene, in monochrome again, we are back into the bar with the trio standing around the table, almost as at the opening of the film. Outside are Stalker's wife and his daughter, Monkey (Natasha Abramova). The wife enters the bar and asks about the dog; Stalker says it came along and they are stuck with it. She asks if the others need a dog; Writer already has five, so she leaves together with Stalker and the dog, leaving Professor and Writer behind. Stalker is carrying his daughter on his shoulders as the scene is back in color again. They walk along a river with the power plant in the background belching steam. Once at home (monochrome), Stalker is very depressed, cursing Writer and Professor for being intelligent people who do not believe in anything because their believe organ has atrophied; who think highly of themselves and think they are born for some purpose. His wife takes him to bed and reassures him that they deserve pity, not anger. Stalker laments that no one believes any more, or needs The Room any longer; his job is worthless and he will no longer take people there. His wife asks him to take her there for something to wish, but he declines, as she may not succeed. He falls asleep, tears on his face. Direct to the audience, the wife delivers a long monologue, saying that her mother very much advised her against marrying Stalker, one of "God's fools", a hopelessly ridiculed muddler. She knew that he would be in jail often, and that their children would be affected. However, she was sure she would be happy with him, and she preferred the bittersweet happiness over a grey, uneventful life. In spite of all the adversities she has endured over the years, she does not regret having married Stalker. She professes that their marriage was blessed, because if there would have been no sorrow, there could have been no happiness either. The final shot, in color, is an enigmatic one. Monkey is heard in a voice-over reading a poem by Fyodor Tyuchev. She then appears to move through telekinesis three glasses which are on the table. A train passes, rattling the room, its rambling mixing up with segments of Beethoven's "Ode to Joy," as the film fades away on Monkey's vacant face.