movieId: 5378
title: Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0121765/
ratingValue: 
directors: George Lucas
actors: Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman, Hayden Christensen, Christopher Lee, Samuel L. Jackson, Frank Oz, Ian McDiarmid, Pernilla August, Temuera Morrison, Jimmy Smits

synopsis:
Ten years after the Battle of Naboo, the Galactic Republic is threatened by a Separatist movement organized by former Jedi Master Count Dooku (Christopher Lee) under which thousands of star systems threaten to leave the Republic. Meanwhile, the senate, now controlled by Palpatine has made it impossible for the small number of remaining Jedi to maintain peace in the Galaxy. Palpatine aims to raise an army to secure the Republic as the Jedi say that they cannot.
Former Queen turned Senator Padmé Amidala (Natalie Portman) travels to Coruscant to vote against a motion to create an army to assist the Jedi against the growing menace. After narrowly avoiding an assassination attempt from Zam Wessell (Leeanna Walsman) a shape-shifting Clawdite bounty hunter and partner of Jango Fett, upon arrival, she is placed under the protection of Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor) and his Padawan apprentice Anakin Skywalker (Hayden Christensen). Amidala was only saved as once again she had a duplicate travelling in the royal spaceship, while she traveled in a security plane, right next to it. The duplicate was killed in the bomb attack when it went off as the star-ship landed in the capital. Jedi Windu assures Amidala that Count Dooku could not be behind the assassination as he was a Jedi once and as such, killing is not in his character.
Anakin vows to find out who is behind the attack on Amidala, but Obi-Wan corrects him that their mandate is only to protect the Queen and not to start an investigation. Anakin is livid at the suggestion and says that protection can be done by local forces, and investigation is implicit in the Jedi mandate. Zam attempts to assassinate Padmé again in her chambers at night but is thwarted once again. She is then pursued by Anakin and Obi-Wan and caught. Zam's employer, a jet-pack-wearing bounty hunter, kills her with a toxic dart from an armored assailant who flies away before she reveals his identity. The Jedi Council instructs Obi-Wan to find the bounty hunter, while Anakin is tasked to protect Padmé and escort her to Naboo. Though Padme objects to the request to go into hiding, she accepts at the request of the Supreme Chancellor. With her away, she assigns Jar Jar Binks to represent her place in the Senate.
Palpatine tells Anakin that he is well on this way to be the best Jedi, surpassing even master Yoda. This is a welcome change for Anakin as Obi-Wan would only tell Anakin that he is still a young apprentice and has much to learn before he can stand with the masters.
Obi-Wan shares with Yoda and Windu that Anakin has become more and more arrogant and is not yet ready to lead an assignment on his own. Anakin complains to Amidala that Obi-Wan is overtly critical of him and would not recognize that in many ways Anakin is even better than him.
Meanwhile, Anakin and Padmé spend time together on Naboo, and Anakin reveals his love for her. Padmé resists, explaining that it would be impossible for the two of them to be together. She is a respected Senator, and the Jedi Code forbids marriage or any other form of attachment. Amidala believes that the Republic is headed for a civil war. She is specifically livid that even after 4 trials in the highest courts, Gunray remains to be Viceroy of the Trade Federation, and the Senate is powerless to resolve the crisis. Obi-Wan's investigation takes him to a friend named Dexter Jettster, who identifies the item that killed Zam as a Kamino Saber-Dart. Dexter says that Kamino is a planet outside the outer rim of the Republic, about 12 Parsecs from the Rishi maze. He adds that the Kamino are very good Cloners. Going to the Jedi Archive to find out information on Kamino, Obi-Wan is surprised when the planet does not show up in his search. Bringing this to Master Yoda's attention, it is surmised that someone erased the location from the archive memory banks. Obi-Wan's search leads to Kamino, an ocean planet. The Prime Minister of Kamino, Lama Su was expecting the Jedi. There, Obi-Wan discovers a clone army is being produced for the Republic in the name of Sifo-Dyas, a deceased Jedi Master. 200,000 units are ready and 1 million more are on the way. The Prime Minister adds that the clones can think creatively and hence are superior to droids. They are also given combat education and training programs.
The Kaminoan Prime Minister tells him that this army was ordered some ten years ago by a Jedi Master named Sifo-Dyas, whom the Jedi Council believes to have been killed around the same time. The bounty hunter Jango Fett (Temuera Morrison) serves as their genetic template. Obi-Wan deduces Jango is the bounty hunter he is seeking. After unsuccessfully trying to capture Jango Fett, Obi-Wan places a tracking device on his ship and follows him to the planet of Geonosis. He then follows Jango and his clone son Boba (Daniel Logan) to the planet Geonosis. Meanwhile, Anakin is troubled by visions of his mother Shmi (Pernilla August) in pain and returns to his home world of Tatooine with Padmé to save her. His former owner Watto (Andy Secombe) reveals that he sold Shmi to a moisture farmer named Cliegg Lars (Jack Thompson), who then freed and married her. Cliegg says Tusken Raiders abducted Shmi one month earlier, and she is likely dead. Anakin finds her at the Tusken campsite, barely alive. After she dies in his arms, an enraged Anakin massacres the entire tribe. Anakin brings his mother's body back to her home, where her funeral is held. He later confesses his actions to Padmé and vows to prevent the deaths of those he loves. On Geonosis, Obi-Wan discovers a Separatist gathering led by Count Dooku, who is developing a droid army with Trade Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray, who ordered the assassination attempts on Padmé. Just before being captured, Obi-Wan relays this information to Anakin so that he can relay it to the Jedi Council on Coruscant. Once the Jedi learn of Dooku's army, Jedi Master Mace Windu (Samuel L. Jackson) leads a team to Geonosis. Dooku meets Obi-Wan in his cell and reveals that the Republic is under the control of the Sith Lord Darth Sidious (Ian McDiarmid). He invites Obi-Wan to help him stop Sidious, but Obi-Wan refuses. Senate Representative Jar Jar Binks (Ahmed Best) proposes a successful vote to grant emergency powers to Chancellor Palpatine, allowing the clone army to be officially mobilized as the military of the Republic. Anakin and Padmé head to Geonosis to rescue Obi-Wan, but Jango captures them. Dooku sentences the trio to be killed by alien beasts in the arena. They join Obi-Wan in an arena-like complex where three huge creatures are unleashed on them for their execution. During their struggle, Mace Windu arrives with the Jedi, and they battle the droid army. Just as defeat for the Jedi seems imminent, Yoda arrives with the Republic's new clone army. A large battle erupts between the Republic's clone forces and the Separatists' droid army. Count Dooku attempts to escape, but Obi-Wan and Anakin track him to a secret hangar, where they engage him in combat.
Windu (Samuel L. Jackson) beheads Jango during the ensuing battle. Obi-Wan and Anakin intercept Dooku and engage in a light-saber duel. Dooku quickly injures Obi-Wan and cuts off Anakin's right arm. Yoda arrives and engages Dooku in light saber combat.
Dooku, realizing he may be outmatched, causes a support pylon to nearly fall on Anakin and Obi-Wan. Yoda uses the Force to stop this, allowing Dooku to escape with the plans for a new weapon, the Death Star. In a desolate industrial district on Coruscant, he meets with his master, Darth Sidious, who is pleased that the war has begun "as planned". Dooku is revealed to be the apprentice Sith Lord, Darth Tyranus. On Coruscant, Obi-Wan informs the Jedi Council of Dooku's warning that Darth Sidious is controlling the Senate. All of them, including Yoda, are surprisingly hesitant to believe this, stating that the Dark Side is capable of creating fear and mistrust. Yoda and Windu also agree that the Dark Side is now clouding everything, and that they should closely monitor the Senate. Meanwhile, Palpatine oversees the launching of a massive clone trooper force. The great and terrible Clone Wars have begin.
On Naboo, Anakin (with a new mechanical hand) and Padmé hold a secret wedding, to which only the droids C-3PO (Anthony Daniels) and R2-D2 (Kenny Baker) are witnesses.