movieId: 1373
title: Star Trek V: The Final Frontier
year: 1989
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0098382/
ratingValue: 
directors: William Shatner
actors: William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, James Doohan, Walter Koenig, Nichelle Nichols, George Takei, David Warner, Laurence Luckinbill, Charles Cooper

synopsis:
The crew of the newly commissioned USS Enterprise (NCC-1701-A) are enjoying shore leave after the starship's shakedown cruise goes poorly. At Yosemite National Park, James T. Kirk (William Shatner), recently demoted back to Captain after the events of the previous two films, is camping with Spock (Leonard Nimoy) and Dr. Leonard McCoy (DeForest Kelley). Their shore leave is interrupted when the Enterprise is ordered by Starfleet Command to rescue human, Klingon, and Romulan diplomats, all taken hostages on the planet Nimbus III. The other officers are Montgomery Scott (James Doohan), the Enterprise's chief engineer; Hikaru Sulu (George Takei), the Enterprise's helmsman; Pavel Chekov (Walter Koenig), the Enterprise's navigator; and Uhura (Nichelle Nichols), the ship's communications officer. Learning of the Enterprise's mission, Captain Klaa, the commander of a Klingon warship, decides to pursue Kirk for personal glory. The Enterprise reaches Nimbus III, but its transporters are inactive, and the Klingon vessel is now two hours away and approaching rapidly. Kirk decides to take a landing party to the surface to negotiate the release of the diplomats. Kirk and his team attack the hostage location, but the hostages instead take Kirk as captive and force Kirk's strike team to surrender. On Nimbus III, the Enterprise crew discovers that the renegade Vulcan Sybok (Laurence Luckinbill), Spock's half-brother, is behind the hostage crisis. Sybok reveals the hostage situation was a ruse to lure a starship to Nimbus III. Sybok wants to use a ship to reach the mythical planet Sha Ka Ree, the place where creation began; the planet lies behind a seemingly impenetrable barrier near the center of the galaxy. Sybok uses his unique ability to reveal and heal the innermost pain of a person through the mind meld to subvert the wills of the hostages and crew members. Only Spock (his greatest fear was his father's refusal to accept Spock as a Vulcan) and Kirk prove resistant to Sybok; Spock is unmoved by the experience and Kirk refuses the Vulcan's offer, telling him that his pain is what makes him human. For example McCoy''s greatest fear was that McCoy assisted his father in medical euthanasia, and could not save him, despite all the knowledge he had at his disposal. Sybok reluctantly declares a truce with Kirk, realizing he needs his leadership experience to navigate the Enterprise to Sha Ka Ree. As Sybok, Kirk and the rest of the crew get near the Enterprise, Klaa's vessel reaches Nimbus III as well and cloaks itself. Kirk pleads Sybok to assume command so he can guide the Enterprise out of the danger of the situation. Kirk instructs Scotty to lower shields just long enough for Sulu to fly the shuttle into the Enterprise manually at full speed. As soon as the shuttle is inside, Chekov takes the Enterprise to warp speed, before Klaa's warship can fire upon its position. The Enterprise successfully breaches the barrier, pursued by Klaa's vessel, and discovers a lone blue planet. Kirk, Spock, McCoy and Sybok journey to the surface, where Sybok calls out to his perceived vision of God. An entity appears, and when told of how Sybok breached the barrier, demands that the starship be brought closer to the planet. When a skeptical Kirk inquires, "What does God need with a starship?", the entity attacks him in retribution. The others doubt a god who would inflict harm on people for his own pleasure. Meanwhile, unnoticed in the commotion, Klaa's warship also penetrates the barrier, cloaks itself and starts to monitor the situation. Realizing his terrible mistake, Sybok sacrifices himself in an attempt to combat the creature and allow the others to escape. Intent on stopping the being, Kirk orders the Enterprise to fire a photon torpedo at their location, to little result. Spock and McCoy are beamed back to the ship, but the Klingon ship attacks the Enterprise before Kirk can be transported aboard. The vengeful entity reappears and tries to kill Kirk when the Klingon ship destroys it with disrupter fire. Kirk is suddenly beamed aboard the Klingon ship where Spock is unusually waiting. The Klingon General Korrd orders Klaa to stand down and apologize for his actions, which he grudgingly does. The Enterprise and Klingon crews celebrate a new detente, and Kirk, Spock and McCoy resume their vacation at Yosemite.