movieId: 2102
title: Steamboat Willie (Short 1928)
year: 1928
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0019422/
ratingValue: 
directors: Ub Iwerks, Walt Disney
actors: Walt Disney

synopsis:
A steamboat is chugging down a stream and Mickey Mouse is at the wheel. Mickey starts whistling a tune and then pulls a rope, making the whistles hum. Two of them do, but one needs encouragement by the others. Captain Pete then pulls Mickey away from the wheel and tells him to go downstairs. Mickey blows Pete a raspberry and Pete goes to kick him, but ends up kicking himself. Now downstairs, Mickey slips on a bar of soap and into a bucket. Mickey dries himself off and the parrot starts laughing at him. Mickey throws the bucket of water over the parrot. Pete hears the commotion and gets out something, putting it in his mouth and spitting it back out again. Eventually, Pete spits it all over himself and he gets angry. The next shot is of all the animals waiting at the Po Dunk Landing, including a bull with the word "FOB" around it neck. The boat arrives and Mickey ties it up, but it wont go up, so Mickey grabs a fork from a haystack and shove it into the bulls stomach, to make it heavier and it goes up. Minnie runs for the boat, carrying a ukulele and a case, but the boat leaves before she gets there. Minnie continues chasing after the boat and finally grabs Mickeys attention. Mickey uses a hook to get Minnie on board and she drops the ukulele and sheet music and a goat eats the paper that has "Turkey in the Straw" written on it. Minnie then notices the goat has eaten all the sheet music and is about to eat the ukulele. Mickey fights it, but the ukulele finally goes down. Mickey then opens up the mouth and Minnie cranks the tail, until a bunch of musical notes start coming out of the goats mouth, playing a tune. Mickey creates some instruments and starts playing along. Mickey then uses the animals on board as instruments. Pete finally catches him and throws Mickey in the "potato bin" and he starts chopping potatoes in half with a knife and the parrot starts laughing again. It ends with Mickey throwing a potato at the parrot and it lands in the ocean with a splash.