movieId: 3268
title: Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot
year: 1992
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0105477/
ratingValue: 
directors: Roger Spottiswoode
actors: Sylvester Stallone, Estelle Getty, JoBeth Williams, Roger Rees, Martin Ferrero, Gailard Sartain, John Wesley, Al Fann, Ella Joyce, J. Kenneth Campbell

synopsis:
Sergeant Joseph "Joe" Andrew Bomowski (Sylvester Stallone) is a tough cop. He works with his partner Sergeant Tony (John Wesley). Joe has a no-nonsense approach to criminals and is trigger happy while dealing with illegal drugs and arms dealers. Joe has feelings for Lieutenant Gwen Harper (JoBeth Williams), and both of them are seeing each other outside the precinct. Gwen is worried that Joe takes a risky approach to dealing with criminals, which might result in him getting hurt in a dicey situation in the future.
His seemingly frail mother Tutti (Estelle Getty) comes to stay with him. On the plane, Tutti tells embarrassing stories about Joe to the air-hostesses, her co-passengers and the pilots, about Joe's bed wetting, and his pee-pee getting stuck in the zippers. Tutti criticizes Joe's driving. Joe responds to a suicide call and goes to assist a young man standing on a window ledge. Tutti takes a megaphone and declares that Joe is her son. Joe asks his mom to butt out, but the young man tells Joe to cooperate and listen to his mother else he would jump. Tutti tells everyone that Joe is still single. Looking at Joe's plight, the young man gives up his suicide plans and backs down.
Tutti is not happy that Joe's apartment is not clean. Tutti cleans his gun with bleach and finding out she ruined it (she cleaned it with Clorox which means it can blow up in Joe's hands if he decides to use it). She changes his breakfast and decides that she will visit Joe at his office. Tutti buys him an illegal MAC-10 machine pistol (she goes to a licensed gun dealer but there is a cooling off period which doesn't suit Tutti as she needs the gun asap. So, she follows a shady character who promises her the gun instantly for cash payment), and (while walking away after buying the gun) witnesses the murder of one of the men who sold her the gun (the other one was Mitchell (Dennis Burkley), who survived). She sees the attacker, Paulie (Martin Ferrero). Turns out the seller had stolen the gun from Paulie's client. Paulie was recovering the stolen merchandise on behalf of his client. Tutti is taken to the police station to give a statement and starts poking around in Joe's cases. As she is a witness, she is asked to stay in town till the investigation is over, and this irritates Joe no end. Tutti withholds info from investigating officer Ross (J. Kenneth Campbell) as she wants Joe to use the info to apprehend the murderers and get a promotion and get married with Gwen and live a happy life. But Joe says he is happy with his life and that Tutti should stop trying to change him.
Tutti continues to stall Ross but gives the details of the van (from which she purchased the illegal gun) to Joe, along with an accurate description of the guy who got shot. Joe finds the address to which the van was registered. Joe finds Paulie inside the house, trying to torture Mitchell's girlfriend and pumping her for information. Paulie escapes, but Tutti and Joe give chase, with Tutti driving. But they end up in a trash truck while Paulie escapes. Tutti and Joe learn that the gun she purchased was part of a collection that was supposedly destroyed in building fire. The company who owned the building got the gun insurance money for $ 12 M. The owner of the building is J. Parnell (Roger Rees), who collected the insurance. Unknown to Joe, Paulie was working for Parnell. Paulie was storing the guns on behalf of Parnell, but due to negligence 10 cases of guns were stolen and one of them found its way to Tutti.
Joe investigates the warehouse building, and it attacked by Paulie, who was sent by Parnell. Joe and Tutti escape with their lives. when Tutti interferes with Joe's love life, it offends Joe, who gives a long list of rules to Tutti if she wants to continue staying at his house. Now, Tutti is offended and tells him that he is making a mistake by not hanging on to Gwen. Tutti decides to leave. Later, Joe realizes that Tutti is right and bares his feelings to Gwen.
Due to his failures, Parnell kills Paulie and is set to exit the US by leaving for South America along with all the weapons, which he intends to sell in South America for a fortune. Tutti leaves for the airport, but Joe begs her to come back home. Back home they find Mitchell inside their house. Mitchell says he is hiding from goons, who have been trying to kill him. He says he stole 10 cases of guns, but there were thousands stored at a bankrupt airstrip just outside of town.
Joe goes to the airstrip alone and Tutti follows him. Tutti is abducted by Parnell, who plans to hold her hostage (so, Joe can't intervene) and then dump her body over the ocean. Joe follows the plane in a truck and prevents it from taking off by destroying one of the propellers.
As Parnell prepares to shoot Joe, Tutti gets a gun from her bag and shoots Parnell. Joe and Gwen get engaged. As Tutti finally goes back, she identifies another criminal at the airport. She saw him on TV and identified him as a man who shot his mother.