movieId: 762
title: Striptease
year: 1996
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0117765/
ratingValue: 
directors: Andrew Bergman
actors: Demi Moore, Burt Reynolds, Armand Assante, Ving Rhames, Robert Patrick, Paul Guilfoyle, Jerry Grayson, Rumer Willis, Robert Stanton, William Hill

synopsis:
Former FBI secretary Erin Grant (Demi Moore) loses custody of her young daughter Angela (Rumer Willis) to her ex-husband Darrell (Robert Patrick), a criminal who cost Erin her job as a secretary for the FBI (as Darell was a drug addict and dealt in illegal drugs). The judge was sympathetic to Darrell as he was collaborating with the Miami Police Department as an informant. To afford an appeal to get her daughter back, Erin becomes a stripper at the Eager Beaver, a strip club in Miami. Erin has been working there for 8 weeks and needs to come up $15k in 6 weeks to appeal her daughter's custody decision. Erin is the top draw at the Eager Beaver and patrons come specifically to watch her strip on stage. Other strippers include Monique (Dina Spybey) who comes from Paris, Lorelei (Barbara Alyn Woods) who is a transfer from a rival club called Flesh Farm and Urbana Sprawl (Pandora Peaks).
Erin would have to dance day and night and hope for generous tips to have any chance of making the money she needs for her appeal. Meanwhile Darrell has moved without informing Erin and is using Angela to steal hospital medical supplies and selling them on the black market. Rita (Siobhan Fallon Hogan) is Darell's sister, and Erin tries to find out from her where he has moved to. Shad (Ving Rhames) is a bouncer at the club and looks out for Erin.
Shad wants to get rich by suing a yogurt company for a cockroach he found in their product. In reality, Shad had put the cockroach inside the yogurt himself to make his case. A Congressman named David Dilbeck (Burt Reynolds) representing Florida's 5th congressional district, visits the club and becomes infatuated with Erin. Erb Crandall (Robert Stanton) is Dilbeck's executive assistant. A patron named Paul Guber was at the club for his bachelor party. He got enamored with Erin, got on stage and hugs her, causing Dilbeck to attack Paul with an empty Champagne bottle. Shad was busy in the backroom and hence was not around to protect Erin. Aware of Dilbeck's embarrassing indulgences, another Eager Beaver patron Jerry (Orly) approaches Erin with a plan to manipulate the congressman to settle the custody battle and help her get Angela back. However, as he is the chairman of the subcommittee on sugar, Dilbeck has powerful business connections including lobbyist Malcolm Moldowsky (Paul Guilfoyle) his right-hand man, and father-and-son sugar barons Willie and Chris Rojo, whose price supports are worth hundreds of millions of dollars, and who want to ensure he remains in office. Consequently, those who can embarrass him (including Jerry, who contacted Malcolm to blackmail Dilbeck) in an election are murdered. Attorney Alan Mordecai (Stuart Pankin), who has acquired photos of the night when Dilbeck became intoxicated at the club and assaulted fellow patron Paul Guber, his client, invites Shad, a bouncer and the club's head of security, to join him in a scheme to blackmail Dilbeck. Meanwhile police officer Al Garcia (Armand Assante) has fished out Jerry's body from a lake. Al Garcia is on vacation there with his wife Donna and son Andy.
Autopsy has revealed that he was drowned in tap water first before being thrown into the lake. It was murder. Jerry had Erin's photos all over his apartment and that's how Al finds Erin at the Eager Beaver and understands her full situation. Erin wants Al to make sure that Miami PD dumps Darrell as an informant, so that during her appeal he doesn't have any protection from the police department and can be exposed for the criminal he is. Fully sympathetic to her plight, he complies. However, L.W. Fingerhut, the judge overseeing Erin's case in civil court, suffers a fatal heart attack and is pronounced dead on arrival at Don Shula Hospital, causing her appeal to be delayed by six months. To protect Angela, Erin retrieves her from Rita's care, having found Darrell's address by stealing her mail. Alan approaches Dilbeck with the picture from the Eager Beaver and Malcolm is worried. Erin takes Angela to work and sees Erin dancing on stage, topless. Darrell attacks Erin outside the club, but is saved by Shad, who breaks Darrell's hand. Angela tells Erin that she looked pretty dancing on stage. Al Garcia meets Erin and tells him that Congressman Dilbeck has a crush on her and shows her the photo being used for his blackmail. Al wants Erin to contact him if Dilbeck is in touch with her. Dilbeck's personal interest in Erin persists, and she is invited to perform privately for him. He asks her to become his lover and later his wife, despite his staff's concerns that she knows too much. Malcolm threatens Erin that he knows that Angela is with Erin illegally and will put Angela in state care if Erin talks about Dilbeck to anyone. Eventually, Alan turns up dead as well and Al is now worried about Erin. However, Erin and Al Garcia begin to suspect the congressman's guilt in the murders, and Erin concocts a plan to bring the congressman to justice. But she doesn't know that Malcolm knows that Al is in touch with her (& that she is ex-FBI). Dilbeck and Malcolm then debate whether to kill Erin or simply silence her by threatening to take away her daughter. Malcolm gets Dilbeck to invite Erin for another private show and plans to kill her just after. Erin goes for the private dance without Al or Shad. Darrell then interrupts the dance, allowing Erin to retrieve a gun and force him and Dilbeck to the nearby Belle Glade sugar refinery, where she has arranged for TV crews to arrive for a news conference. On route, she forces Darrell to write a note releasing custody of Angela to her and once there, she tricks Dilbeck into confessing to the murders on tape. As Malcolm arrives, Garcia suddenly appears along with the news crew, and Dilbeck is soon after arrested. Erin, having regained full guardianship of Angela, thanks Garcia and Shad for assisting her and jokingly expresses interest to Garcia in running for Congress as Dilbeck's replacement.