movieId: 4068
title: Sugar & Spice
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0186589/
ratingValue: 
directors: Francine McDougall
actors: Marla Sokoloff, Marley Shelton, Melissa George, Mena Suvari, Rachel Blanchard, Alexandra Holden, Sara Marsh, James Marsden, Sean Young, W. Earl Brown

synopsis:
The story is narrated by Lisa "The Informer" Janusch (Marla Sokoloff), the bitter and jealous head cheerleader of Lincoln High School's B-squad. Home of the Emancipators (otherwise known as "the Fighting E's"). Diane "The Mastermind" Weston (Marley Shelton) is the popular head cheerleader of Lincoln High School's A-squad. Jack was a recent transfer to the school and the star football quarterback. Lisa hates Diane as she believes that Diane was threatened by her talent and hence deliberately kept her off the A squad. As a result, Lisa has been on the B squad for 4 years.
Smith (Wiley Harker) is the principal of the High School. Lisa claims that Diane's routines were old and jaded and she flouted many rules of the National Cheerleaders Association. Lisa made a complete report and sent it in. Jack was dreamy and everybody at school wanted a piece of him. Even Lisa had a crush on Jack. Jack was elected the Homecoming King and wanted to become a senator later in life. Jack asks Diane to the Homecoming dance; out of all the choices he had in school.
Diane and Jack get really close very quickly. Jack helps his team win the Homecoming game buy scoring a last-minute touchdown. Before she knew it, Diane becomes pregnant by John "Jack" Bartlett (James Marsden).
They decide to get married and announce the pregnancy to their parents. The parents kick both Diane and Jack out of the house. Diane does not want an abortion as she always planned to have a family. Diane and Jack move out of their parents' homes to find an apartment of their own. They soon realize that no bank would lend them money as they don't have any income yet. Jack initially has problems staying in a job, due to his tactless personality, but finally gets hired at a video rental store. In spite of their problems coming up with the rent money, Jack and Diane try as hard as they can to survive while going to school at the same time. Their monthly income is $485, and their monthly expenses are $730. Lisa, Diane's bitter rival, occasionally runs into Jack at the rental store. She is interested in winning Jack's heart but fails to get his attention. For the students at school, Jack and Diane were living the perfect life. They had their own place, so stay awake for as long as they liked, and could eat whatever they wanted. Plus, Jack was getting a discount on R-rated movies at the video store.
Their landowner dealt in stolen goods and would them at their place for extended periods, which means Diane and Jack had access to free electronic appliances. Jack helps his team win the state championship. After struggling with the rent and anticipating the financial hardship of supporting a family, Diane and her four cheerleader squad mates, bad girl Kansas "The Rebel" Hill (Mena Suvari), boy-crazy Cleo "The Stalker" Miller (Melissa George), nerdy Lucy "The Brain" Whitman (Sara Marsh), and Uber Christian Hannah "The Virgin" Wald (Rachel Blanchard), plan the perfect bank robbery. They promise each other not to tell Jack about their plan, because of his inability to lie to others. Kansas' mom has been in prison ever since she was born. She was in labor with Kansas when she saw her husband making out with the nurse and killed him with a shotgun. She got life without parole and now Kansas lives with her grandparents. Cleo has to see a therapist due to her obsession with a boy in class. Lucy has a genius IQ, but is an obsessive, compulsive freak. Hannah claims that she is not a virgin anymore as she had an orgasm at Church camp.
Diane believes that money is the only way to fulfill her dreams, and a bank robbery is the quickest way to get the same. She convinces her squad mates that with a pile of cash, their lives would be better too and they would be able to do what they wanted. The squad watches heist films to learn how to rob banks, and Kansas visits her mother at the women's penitentiary, for tips on where to find weaponry. Following the women's advice, Diane and her friends visit a bug exterminator, "The Terminator" (W. Earl Brown), who sells illegal arms and ammo. He refuses to sell them the guns unless they accept his daughter, Fern "The Terminator" Rogers (Alexandra Holden), on the squad. The squad agrees to do so, and they begin rehearsing the robbery, as well as their choreography for the winter ball. During winter break, they order masks to hide their identities. Lucy backs out of the heist because she receives a scholarship to Harvard. At Christmas, Diane receives an engagement ring from Jack. She then finds out he sold his GTO in order to buy her the ring. The squad is forced to buy a new get-away vehicle, which turns out to be an old van with bad brakes. At their first robbery at a supermarket, Lucy returns to the group having decided to help them after all. Lisa happens to be in the store at the time of the robbery, and notices that they perform cheerleader stunts in order to cover up the security cameras. The squad robs the bank and come close to shooting a customer after one of the guns discharges. They make off with armloads of cash and celebrate their success after burning their Betty costumes. The robbery is reported on TV.
Neither Diane nor her friends expect Lisa to suspect them until they are confronted by her and the B-squad in the high school cafeteria, followed by the FBI. Diane and her friends are jailed and need an alibi, so Diane promises to promote Lisa to captain of the A-squad in order to keep Lisa silent, since she is approaching her third trimester and can't do rigorous activity. The group is outraged but come to appreciate this decision.
In order to cover up her actions, Diane tells Jack she won the lottery and after they have their children, Jack wins his senatorial campaign, and Diane's squad lead successful lives after high school.