movieId: 5110
title: Super Troopers
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0247745/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jay Chandrasekhar
actors: André Vippolis, Joey Kern, Geoffrey Arend, Erik Stolhanske, Jay Chandrasekhar, Steve Lemme, Kevin Heffernan, Paul Soter, Camille Hickman, Marisa Coughlan

synopsis:
In the fictional town of Spurbury, Vermont, five Vermont state troopers patrol a 50-mile section of the highway and compete for prominence with the local police department. They are warned that their station risks being shuttered due to low productivity. The troopers - Lieutenant Arcot Ramathorn, "Rabbit" Roto, "Mac" Womack, and Carl Foster - delight in playing practical jokes on unsuspecting motorists and each other, rather than enforcing the law. They particularly enjoy tormenting fellow trooper Rodney Farva, an arrogant and overzealous officer who has been suspended from the road for an unspecified incident. While troopers Arcot Ramathorn (Jay Chandrasekhar) (a veteran of the Vermont State Police who is the second-in-command of his barracks) and the rookie, Robert "Rabbit" Roto (Erik Stolhanske) are tormenting a group of teenagers for smoking marijuana, they encounter a crazed speeding motorist, who is revealed to be their co-worker MacIntyre Womack (Steve Lemme) (the Trooper who enjoys pranks the most) playing a prank on them.
MacIntyre and the cops go into a shed after a high-speed car chase, where McIntyre pretends to kill the cops, while the teenagers were in the back of the cop car. McIntyre then emerges from the shed, takes control of the cop car and pretends to drive to Mexico. Back at the station, they are chastised for a lack of arrests by their boss, Captain John O'Hagan (Brian Cox) (the commander of his Vermont State Trooper barracks), who warns them that they risk being shut down. They also torment the radio dispatcher, Rodney Farva (Kevin Heffernan) (a fat, loud, obnoxious and arrogant radio operator), who has been suspended. While investigating a Winnebago, they encounter a woman who died from a drug overdose with a tattoo of a monkey. Once outside the trailer, the state troopers encounter their rivals, the local Spurbury police, who they compete with for arrests. The local police insist that the Winnebago is their jurisdiction, but the state troopers try to drive them away.
The Spurbury police chief, Bruce Grady, hopes to force the closure of the troopers' station, thereby securing increased funding for his agency. The animosity leads to a brawl between the assembled officers at the site of the Winnebago. Eventually the local police take custody of the Winnebago. When Foster (Paul Soter) (arguably the most calm and reserved Trooper of the force) and Womack pull over a truck for avoiding a weigh-station, they are locked inside while the driver flees. 2 hours later, Ramathorn and Rabbit rescue them, and they find marijuana packages with stickers depicting the same monkey seen on the dead woman's tattoo. In total, the highway troopers recover 150 Kgs of Marijuana from the truck. The troopers suspect the dead woman, and the marijuana from the truck are related. However, Chief Grady laughs off the claim and refuses Captain O'Hagan's suggestion that the troopers and local police cooperate on the investigation. Foster begins a relationship with Spurbury police officer Ursula Hanson (Marisa Coughlan) and visits her regularly at the local police station. Ursula is sick of not being taken seriously as she is a female officer. She appreciates the attention from Foster. While attempting to have sex with her in the now-impounded Winnebago, discovers hidden bundles of marijuana, all bearing the same monkey sticker.
O'Hagan cannot understand why Grady could not find the marijuana inside the Winnebago and decides that this is their chance to bring the culprits to justice, and in the process, justify their own need in the law enforcement department. Rabbit impounds a good-looking Porsche as the car turned up to be stolen during a routine speed check. At night, Rabbit takes the Porsche out for a joy ride. Farva was out filling petrol in his car, when he sees the Porsche speeding and intercepts it.
Meanwhile, Ramathorn takes the German couple driving the Porsche to his home to fulfill some sexual fantasies with his wife. Due to his quick thinking and interception, Farva is reinstated to the force and becomes Ramathorn's partner. Farva is still angry as Ramathorn refuses to engage Farva in his famous pranks, and thus Farva feels left out, and not part of the team.
While at a restaurant, Farva attacks a cashier in retaliation for cutting a hole in his drink. Farva is arrested by the Spurbury police, where he receives a job offer from Police Chief Bruce Grady (Daniel Von Bargen) in exchange for information about the drug investigation. Farva is subsequently reprimanded by an infuriated O'Hagan, who re-suspends Farva. The Vermont governor (Lynda Carter) travels to Spurbury for a press conference about the drug bust. Knowing that the Spurbury police will be involved with the governor's visit, Ramathorn and Foster break into the Spurbury police office to steal the Winnebago to present the marijuana as evidence. At the press conference, Chief Grady claims responsibility for the drug bust, despite it being the work of the State troopers. Foster thinks that Ursula revealed the location of the marijuana to her boss in exchange for a promotion. Having failed to increase arrests, the state troopers expect their unit to be shut down. Back at the station, the state troopers find Farva dressed in a Spurbury PD uniform; Foster realizes that it was him, not Ursula, who betrayed the location of the marijuana. The troopers, including Captain O'Hagan, tie Farva to a toilet and drunkenly vandalize Chief Grady's house. Ursula offers to help them and directs them to one of the drug-running trucks. As they attempt to pursue it, the troopers encounter an escaped Farva, who holds them at gunpoint and berates them for not taking him seriously as a cop. O'Hagan intervenes and the troopers convince Farva to help them stop the drug smugglers. Following the truck to a nearby airfield, the troopers observe it being loaded with marijuana from a Canadian-marked plane. The state troopers see Chief Grady arrive, only to realize that the Spurbury police are working alongside the drug dealers. Using a sex doll on top of Farva's car, the state troopers distract the Sudbury police officers long enough to attack and arrest them. The governor sends Captain O'Hagan a letter thanking him for his efforts but tells him that their station will still be shut down. Three months later, Ramathorn and Rabbit are delivering beer to a party hosted by teenagers. As the teenagers torment the seemingly powerless ex-troopers, they remove their deliverymen's uniforms to reveal that they are Spurbury police officers, having replaced their corrupt predecessors.