movieId: 3190
title: Supernova
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0134983/
ratingValue: 
directors: Walter Hill, Francis Ford Coppola, Jack Sholder
actors: James Spader, Angela Bassett, Robert Forster, Lou Diamond Phillips, Peter Facinelli, Robin Tunney, Wilson Cruz, Eddy Rice Jr., Knox White, Kerrigan Mahan

synopsis:
Supernova chronicles the search-and-rescue patrol of the medical ship Nightingale 229 in deep space in the early 22nd century and its six-member crew, which includes captain and pilot A.J. Marley (Robert Forster), co-pilot Nick Vanzant (James Spader), medical officer Kaela Evers (Angela Bassett), medical technician Yerzy Penalosa (Lou Diamond Phillips), search and rescue paramedic Danika Lund (Robin Tunney) and computer technician Benjamin Sotomejor (Wilson Cruz). Sweetie (Vanessa Marshall) is the ship's on-board computer. Aboard their vessel, they receive an emergency distress signal directly coming from an ice mining operation on the moon Titan 37, more than 3,000 light-years away. The ship usually receives signals from dispatch, so getting a direct signal is unusual. Titan 37 is a rogue moon as it was expelled from its parent body and is now wandering in deep space. The moon was abandoned 5 years ago, and all mining operations stopped. The call is from Karl Larson, who is Kaela's old former lover.
Nick has joined the crew just 12 days before and is ex-military. He was discharged for drug use and he opted to spend his volunteer service (as part of the rehabilitation) on the Nightingale. Kaela doesn't trust Nick. Danika is having a sexual relationship with Yerzy. The crew answers the call and dimension-jumps-during which Captain Marley suffers fatal injuries due to a malfunction of the ship's equipment (the dimensional pods will allow humans to survive during the jump malfunctioned)-arriving in the path of Titan 37's debris cloud, some of which damages the ship and causes the loss of 82 percent of its maneuvering fuel. Worse still, Titan 37 orbits a blue giant, and its high gravity field will pull the ship to the point where it will be incinerated in 17 hours, 12 minutes-which happens to be almost the same amount of time that the Nightingale 229 will need to recharge its jump drive, their only possible hope for escape.
Benajmin figures out that the dimension pod was showing signs of malfunction prior to the jump, which he thinks that Marley must have seen. He is puzzled as to why Marley chose to jump in this case. With only an 11-minute window for escape, the surviving crew soon find themselves in danger from the disturbing young man in his 20's (Peter Facinelli) they rescue (Karl launched a ship from the Titan's surface while the Nightingale was in orbit around the moon), and the mysterious alien artifact he has smuggled aboard. Kaela says the young man they rescued is not Karl. The man claims to be Troy, Karl's son, who he says died 3 years ago. Troy claims that he was scavenging the moon after the Govt left and was left stranded by his friends when they found nothing of value on the moon. But he reports that the moon has plenty of fuel for the Nightingale. He found the alien artifact when he was on the moon all alone. He plans to sell it to the Govt for a hefty profit and offers 5% each to the crew. But Nick says this can dangerous and plans to abandon the artifact in deep space, when they get out of their current situation with the blue star. Nick leaves on a shuttle to get fuel for the ship. Yerzy is fascinated with the artifact, while Troy seduces and has sex with Danika. The artifact is analyzed by the ship's computer and is said to contain nine-dimensional matter (The shell casing enclosing the matter is supposed to disperse it in all directions, resulting in the creation of new 3-dimensional matter. Kaela concludes its a bomb, but Sweetie says that it will replenish essential minerals in the 3 dimensional universe).. Kaela believes that an alien civilization has planted this device, so that an advanced civilization discovers it, takes it home, where it explodes and eliminates their competition.
Troy cuts off Sweetie's communication with Nick, while Nick discovers many dead bodies inside the mining station. It is ultimately discovered (Sweetie matches with known the DNA records, when she can't ascertain Troy's identity as stated) that the young man who called for rescue is actually Karl Larson, an old former lover of Kaela (it is implied that he was abusive). Karl came into contact with the nine-dimensional matter after recovering the artifact. It somehow enabled him to acquire super-strength (his bones have strengthened themselves) and supernatural healing abilities, ability to read people's minds and made him younger (such that Kaela did not recognize him as Karl). Karl murders most of the crew (Danika is killed first when she finds Troy sabotaging Nick's shuttle. He kills Yerzy as he was getting stronger due to the closeness to the artifact. Benjamin discovers that Yerzy and Danika are missing and attacks Troy, who kills him) except Kaela and strands Nick on the mining platform (By flying the shuttle back to the Nightingale, remotely). Karl unsuccessfully attempts to romantically reconcile with Kaela. Nick finds his way back to the medical ship through a rescue pod left on the mining platform, and a battle ensues between Nick and Karl. Karl is ultimately killed by Kaela using explosives placed near the alien artifact which Karl was obsessed with retrieving. The explosion ejects the artifact into space, hurtling it towards the blue giant. With moments left before the dimension jump activates, Kaela and Nick place themselves into the only remaining dimensional stabilization chamber (Karl had destroyed all but one), which is the only thing that enables human beings to survive the ship's dimensional jump drive. The pods are meant to hold only one person; however, two subjects might be genetically mixed during the dimensional jump. Before Nick and Kaela enter the only remaining pod, the computer warns them that the nine-dimensional matter is reacting with the gravity of the blue giant sun and will cause a nine-dimensional reaction that will spread in all directions, such that the reaction's resulting supernova will reach Earth within 51 years. The computer hypothesizes that the reaction will either destroy life on Earth or "enable humankind to achieve a new level of existence". Just before the blue giant supernovas, the ship engages in a dimensional jump which brings Nick and Kaela back to Earth. As a result of their being in the same pod, the two of them each have one eye of the other person's original eye color. The ship's computer also reveals that Kaela is pregnant, which may be the result of them being in the pod together during the jump, or the result of their copulation hours earlier.