movieId: 2687
title: Tarzan
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120855/
ratingValue: 
directors: Chris Buck, Kevin Lima
actors: Brian Blessed, Glenn Close, Minnie Driver, Tony Goldwyn, Nigel Hawthorne, Lance Henriksen, Wayne Knight, Alex D. Linz, Rosie O'Donnell

synopsis:
In 1999, a British couple and their infant son were shipwrecked in Equatorial Africa. The parents build a tree house (using wood from their wrecked ship that drifted to the shore) and have a seemingly pleasant life. But one day, they are attacked and killed by Sabor, a vicious leopard that escaped from the circus. Their son is found by Kala (Glenn Close), who hears the cries of the infant while traveling across the jungle. Kala's own son was also killed by Sabor, and she saves the infant from being devoured by Sabor. Sabor gets entangled in the ropes surrounding the tree-house and Kala escapes with the infant.
Kala brings the human child to her tribe and adopts him despite the objections of her mate, Kerchak (Lance Henriksen). Kala is a loving and protective mother to the infant that she named Tarzan. Years later Tarzan (Tony Goldwyn) befriends other animals including Kala's niece Terk (Rosie O'Donnell) and the paranoid elephant Tantor (Wayne Knight). Tarzan finds himself treated differently because of his different physique.
Tarzan goes out of his way to prove he is worthy of the tribe by taking on dangerous missions like pulling a hair from an Elephant's tail, which Terk had meant as a way to discourage Tarzan. As a result, Tarzan causes a stampede which nearly takes out the tribe, earning the wrath of Kerchak. Kerchak says that Tarzan can never be a gorilla, and Kala says that Kerchak never gives him a chance.
As he grows up, Tarzan makes valiant efforts to improve himself, including making stone tools to mimic claws and horns he has seen on other animals.
As an adult, Tarzan is an intelligent and skilled jungle warrior. One day, the tribe is attacked by Sabor and Kerchak is injured while fighting it. Tarzan steps in and saves Kerchak. Tarzan kills Sabor with a spear, gaining Kerchak's reluctant approval. Meanwhile, a team of human explorers from England, consisting of Professor Archimedes Q Porter (Nigel Hawthorne). Porter, his daughter Jane (Minnie Driver), and their hunter escort Clayton (Brian Blessed), are looking to study the gorillas.
As 2 guns shot ring through the jungle, Tarzan follows the sound out of curiosity. Jane is worried that Clayton's gun shots might be scaring away the Gorillas, but Clayton is only concerned with security.
Jane accidentally becomes separated from the group and is chased by a baboon troop, until Tarzan rescues her. After comparing her to himself, he realizes they are similar. Tarzan is astounded as in the jungle he has never seen anyone similar to him.
Jane leads Tarzan back to their camp, where Terk and Tantor were busy demolishing the human artifacts. Jane realizes that Tarzan is one of them. Tarzan and his friends have to retreat when Kerchak arrives and is livid to see Tarzan with a human.
Kerchak forbids anyone from contacting the humans, but Tarzan says that the humans mean no harm and berates Kerchak for being afraid of anyone who is different from him. Tarzan, however, cannot get Jane out of his mind, and returns to the camp. Porter and Clayton both take interest in Tarzan; the former in terms of scientific progress, while the latter hopes to have Tarzan lead the group to the gorillas.
Despite Kerchak's warnings to avoid the humans, Tarzan repeatedly returns to the camp. Porter, Clayton, and Jane teach him how to speak English properly, and tell him what the human world is like. Tarzan and Jane begin to fall in love; however, she has difficulty convincing Tarzan to lead the humans to the gorillas, as Tarzan fears Kerchak's fury. The explorers' ship soon returns to retrieve them. Jane asks Tarzan to return with them to England, but Tarzan, in turn, asks Jane to stay with him when Jane says it is unlikely that they will ever return. Clayton convinces Tarzan that Jane will stay with him forever as long as he leads them to the gorillas. Tarzan agrees and leads the trio to the nesting grounds while Terk and Tantor lure Kerchak away by dressing up as humans. Porter and Jane are excited to mingle with the gorillas (and Jane demonstrates that she has learned to speak Gorilla language), but Kerchak returns and attacks the humans on sight (he saw Clayton with a gun). Tarzan restrains Kerchak while the humans escape. Afterward, Kerchak accuses Tarzan of betraying his family, causing Tarzan to flee in shame. Kala takes Tarzan to the tree-house where she found him, reveals his true past, and says that she wants him to be happy whatever he decides. Tarzan puts on his late father's suit, signifying his decision to go to England. When Tarzan boards the ship with Jane and Porter the next day, they are ambushed by Clayton and his traitorous band of stowaway thugs. Now aware of the location of the nesting grounds, Clayton reveals his plans to capture and sell the gorillas for a fortune, and imprisons Tarzan, Jane, and Porter to prevent them from interfering. Tarzan manages to escape with the help of Terk and Tantor, and he returns to the jungle, rallying the animals to come to the aid of the gorillas and scare off the thugs. Clayton then mortally wounds Kerchak and battles Tarzan across the treetops. Although Tarzan spares Clayton's life and breaks his rifle, Clayton tries to kill him with his machete. Their battle comes to a cluster of vines, and Clayton tries to cut free when a vine becomes tangled around his neck, hanging him to death. Kerchak, with his dying breath, finally accepts Tarzan as his son, and names him the leader of the gorilla troop. The next day, Porter and Jane prepare to leave on the ship, while Tarzan stays behind with the gorillas. As the ship's rowboat leaves shore, Porter encourages his daughter to stay with the man she loves, and Jane jumps overboard, followed soon after by her father. The Porters reunite with Tarzan and his family and embark on their new life together in the jungle.