movieId: 7036
title: Teen Wolf
year: 1985
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0090142/
ratingValue: 
directors: Rod Daniel
actors: Michael J. Fox, James Hampton, Susan Ursitti, Jerry Levine, Matt Adler, Lorie Griffin, James MacKrell, Mark Arnold, Jay Tarses, Mark Holton

synopsis:
High school student Scott Howard (Michael J Fox) is seventeen years old, sick of being average and wishing he were special. His father Harold (James Hampton) runs a local hardware store. Scott plays basketball for his high school's team, the Beavers, with a not-so-good win-loss record. The Beavers are last in the league and their coach want to forfeit their games against the top teams, rather than go through the humiliation of losing by huge margins. Chubby (Mark Holton) is one of the players on the team who is particularly overweight.
The girl of his dreams, Pamela Wells (Lorie Griffin), is dating Mick (Mark Arnold), a jerk from an opposing high school team, the Dragons. Boof is Scott's best friend, but Scott cannot notice that Boof is interested in him.
Pamela is on the school play team. Scott wants to quit basketball and join the school play, just so he can spend more time with Pamela and get her to notice him. After another of the team's losses, Scott begins to notice strange changes to his body (long hairs in the chest, hypersensitivity to high pitched sounds, elevated heart rate, a rash on his back).
Scott's friend Stiles wants him to help get a keg of beer for his upcoming party. The liquor store refuses to sell any without an ID proof. But Scott suddenly gets a very deep, throaty voice and red glowing eyes that scares the store attendant into selling him one. While at a school party at Stiles's house, Scott keeps undergoing changes. Stiles is the party master and engages the whole gang in games. Each girl has pulled out a name of a boy from a hat and Stiles asks them adult stuff to do together. Boof says that she had Scott's name (even though she didn't) and gets 2 minutes in the closet with him where "anything goes". Boof slaps Scott when he gets too "handsy" and emerges from the closet with the back of dress shredded to pieces. Eventually Scott returns home, locks himself in the bathroom, and undergoes a complete change and becomes a werewolf, while his father demands that he open the door. He tries to refuse, only to finally give in and obey, to find his father has also transformed into a werewolf.
Harold never told his son about the condition because "sometimes it skips a generation" and he was hoping it wouldn't happen to Scott. Scott's perception of the werewolf is made from the movies, and he is afraid that he will end up becoming a freak. Howard tries to counsel him that being a werewolf will give Scott many advantages as well.
As Scott acts anxious in school, vice principal Rusty Thorne keeps a close eye on him and wants to see his hands. Scott reveals his transformation to Stiles and he says that he is learning to control his change into a Werewolf. Boof knows that something is bothering Scott and tries to reach out to him, but he doesn't open up to her.
Scott first reveals his transformation to the public at one of his basketball games, after getting pinned in a pile-up. After momentarily stunning the crowd with The Wolf, Scott goes on to wow them with his basketball skills and he finishes the game with a quadruple double. Scott subsequently learns to use his family "curse" to gain popularity at school, becoming the team's star basketball player, and learns to transform at will between his normal self and The Wolf. His basketball team goes from last to first, and Scott begins spending most of his school time as The Wolf. He also wins the interest of Pamela while ignoring the affections of his best friend, Boof (Susan Ursitti), who has loved him since childhood. Scott's other best friend Stiles (Jerry Levine), a party animal with an entrepreneurial streak, quickly cashes in on Scott's new-found popularity, selling Teen Wolf T-shirts and other merchandise. Stiles' "Wolfmania" reaches such extremes that Scott trades in his own vehicle for a step van dubbed "Wolfmobile."
After he gets a role as a "Werewolf cavalryman" in the school play alongside her, Pamela comes onto him in the dressing room, and they have sex. Later, after a date set up to make Mick jealous, Pamela tells Scott that she is not interested in him as a boyfriend, much to his disappointment.
Harold tells Scott he is responsible for his son's conflicts with vice principal Rusty Thorne (Jim McKrell), due to a scare Harold had given him when he was in high school. He advises Scott to be himself. Boof agrees to go with Scott to the upcoming Spring Dance, but only if he goes as himself. Scott goes alone as the Wolf instead. She takes him into the hallway, and they kiss, which turns Scott back into himself.
When they return to the dance, Scott garners everyone's attention, including Pamela. A jealous Mick punches him in the face, then proceeds to insult Boof and taunt Scott until the Wolf angrily attacks. Scott runs out of the hall right into Thorne, who threatens expulsion. Harold sends his son home before going on to intimidate Thorne by growling in his face, causing the vice principal to wet himself. During the final basketball game (Beavers vs. Dragons again), Scott refuses to "wolf out" and insists on winning the game on his own. Coach Bobby Finstock (Jay Tarses) tells Scott that the team is doomed to fail without The Wolf, but Scott is able to prove him wrong.
In a dramatic game ending, and with the help of five fouls from Mick, Scott is able to rally the team back to within a point as time is expiring. Scott is fouled one last time by Mick on the final play and given two shots.
Mick stands underneath the basket as Scott attempts his foul shots. Scott makes both baskets and the Beavers win the game by one point. Pamela smugly expects to get Scott's attention after the game is over, but he passes her by to hold Boof in his arms, kissing her passionately. Mick tells Pamela that they should leave, but she tells him to "drop dead" and storms off while everyone else celebrates the victory.