movieId: 2802
title: Tequila Sunrise
year: 1988
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0096244/
ratingValue: 
directors: Robert Towne
actors: Mel Gibson, Michelle Pfeiffer, Kurt Russell, Raul Julia, J.T. Walsh, Arliss Howard, Arye Gross, Gabriel Damon, Daniel Zacapa, Eric Thiele

synopsis:
Dale "Mac" McKussic (Mel Gibson) is a former drug dealer trying to go straight. His close friend Nick Frescia (Kurt Russell) is a Detective Lieutenant with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department who, in spite of their long-term relationship going back to high school, is duty-bound to bring Mac to justice if he is selling drugs again, as DEA Agent Hal Maguire (J. T. Walsh) believes to be the case. Mac tries to help his lawyer Andy Leonard (Arye Gross) sell some cocaine. Mac is thrown off balance when Nick (working undercover as a middleman) walks into the hotel room with the buyer, with an intention to arrest everyone as the deal is concluded. Nick is shocked to see Mac and does not want to arrest him. Nick and Mac both use excuses to step outside of the hotel room. Mac knows that Nick has even bugged his phones. Maguire is keeping Mac under 24*7 observation and his DEA cops follow him everywhere. Maguire refuses to share his intel with Nick as he knows that Nick is sympathetic to Mac and doesn't want to arrest him.
Nick tries to warn Mac to lay off any drug dealing as the heat is on him. At the same time, Nick warns Maguire not to manufacture a case against Mac, by using false evidence or any other underhanded tactic. Nick knows that Maguire has an informer, but Maguire refuses to reveal his name to Nick. Mac is attracted to stylish restaurant owner Jo Ann Vallenari (Michelle Pfeiffer). Nick becomes acquainted with Jo Ann while attempting to learn more about Mac's activities. Maguire had arrested Ann's chef for drunk driving and discovered he was an illegal immigrant. Maguire threatens to deport the chef till Ann squeals on Mac. As Ann threatens to sue, Nick steps in and resolves the matter by releasing the chef and making friends with Ann.
Nick has dinner with Ann and finds that Mac has never asked her out. Ann says that she knows Mac drives a $50,000 car and always pays in cash, so she also maintains her distance from him. Nick is particularly interested in Mac's relationship with the Mexican drug kingpin Carlos, whom the DEA agents and Mexican federal police commandant Escalante (Raul Julia) believe is coming to town. Maguire is confident that Carlos is personally moving 1200 Kgs of cocaine. Carlos has never moved in the US without Mac. Maguire promises Nick that if Mac helps them snatch Carlos, then Mac will get immunity from prosecution which will save him 15 years in jail.
Mac has a legitimate business and is raising a son, trying to distance himself from his former drug smuggling ways. Mac is divorced from his ex-wife Shaleen (Ann Magnuson).
Mac also feels indebted to his old friend Carlos, who is pressuring Mac to do one last job. Jo Ann succumbs to Nick's charms and a love affair begins. Nick genuinely cares for Jo Ann. Mac often eats at her restaurant and hires her to cater his son's birthday party. Nick believes that this is the party which Carlos will be attending to meet Mac.
Meanwhile, Maguire and his associates set a trap for Mac and the mysterious Carlos, whose face none of them except Mac has seen. Mac meets Nick privately and tells him not to use him or Jo Ann to get to Carlos. Mac pays Jo Ann a $2500 tip on her catering bill of $2500. Jo Ann goes back to confront Mac who admits that he gave her the wrong envelope. Mac is nothing but courteous and patient with Jo Ann. Mac admits that he was trying to help Andy, so that Andy would tell Jo Ann that Mac now has a legitimate business. This way Mac hoped that Jo Ann would not turn down his request for a date.
Nick introduces Jo Ann to Escalante at her restaurant. Andy tells Jo Ann that it was no accident that her chef was arrested as Nick had him followed every night. In a meeting at Jo Ann's restaurant, Escalante, Maguire and Nick make a plan to trap Mac when he meets Carlos. Jo Ann becomes angry when Mac accuses Jo Ann of spying on him on Nick's behalf. She accuses Nick of using her to gather information on Mac.
Nick admits he is investigating Mac and that he originally approached her because of that. But he truthfully admits that he really has fallen in love with her. Jo Ann ends her relationship with Nick for his initial deception. In time, Jo Ann realizes that Mac is in love with her and that she has fallen for him. Nick figures out that Mac's cousin Gregg (Arliss Howard) is an informer for the DEA (looking at all the spy photos of Mac, where he finds picks of Maguire together with Gregg). Nick also realizes that Maguire has become dangerously obsessed with catching Mac, willing to use any means necessary. Maguire is working with Gregg to move half a million dollars into Mac's home without his consent. This way, when Carlos visits him, they can be implicated in a drug deal. Mac and Jo Ann make love at his house. Jo Ann is called to her restaurant on business. Nick meets her there, gives her a pistol for protection, and tells her to stay away from Mac that night because Carlos is expected there. She does not heed Nick's warning and returns to Mac's house, where she discovers that Escalante is, in fact, Carlos. Carlos relieves her of Nick's pistol and takes her to his yacht at the marina. He knows that Gregg is the informer and has him killed, leaving his body next to a shipment of gasoline contaminated cocaine. Maguire and Nick find Gregg's body and the cocaine at the beach. Nick meets with Mac to warn him that Jo Ann is in danger. Mac pulls a gun on Nick and rushes to the marina.
Carlos pressures him to kill Jo Ann because she now knows too much. Mac refuses, threatens Carlos at gunpoint and gets Jo Ann to safety on a speedboat.
Mac nevertheless promises Carlos that he will be at the rendezvous site as arranged to conclude their business. Nick explains to Maguire that Escalante is actually Carlos and heads for the marina. Mac arrives first and is double-crossed by Carlos, whereupon a fight ensues between them. As they struggle over the pistol, it fatally discharges into Carlos's abdomen. Maguire shows up and begins shooting, first to kill Carlos with a shot to the face, and at Mac as he is raising his hands to surrender. The gunfire causes the boat's fuel tank to catch fire, just as Mac jumps in the water. Nick arrives at the marina. He hears the gunfire, draws his weapon and orders Maguire to cease fire, but Maguire continues shooting, forcing Nick to shoot him in the back, wounding him. The fire causes the boat to explode, and with it the millions of dollars of drugs on board.
The story ends with Nick asking Jo Ann to meet him at the beach. She arrives to instead find Mac, running to embrace him in the waves. A pleased Nick watches from a distance.