movieId: 2462
title: Texas Chainsaw Massacre: The Next Generation
year: 1994
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0110978/
ratingValue: 
directors: Kim Henkel
actors: Renée Zellweger, Matthew McConaughey, Robert Jacks, Tonie Perensky, Joe Stevens, Lisa Marie Newmyer, John Harrison, Tyler Shea Cone, James Gale, Chris Kilgore

synopsis:
In this installment, we hear that since 1991 (when the third Texas Chainsaw Massacre took place), the massacres have stopped and for five years Texas has remained silent. This installment takes place in 1996 and starts off with a group of teens at their high school prom. This includes Jenny (Renee Zellweger), who lives with an abusive step-father, her friends and all of their dates. When one of Jenny's friends, Heather (Lisa Newmyer), notices her boyfriend Barry (Tyler Cone) is missing, she finds him outside the school in the parking lot cheating on her with another girl. Extremely angry, Heather starts driving away in Barry's car, while Jenny, and her boyfriend Sean (John Harrison), and Barry running after them. Heather finally stops and lets Barry in so she could confront him about the cheating. Driving angrily, Jenny collides with another car on a remote wooded road. The other driver passes out after saying he's not hurt. Heather, Barry and Jenny decide to look for help while Sean stays at the scene of the crash. The trio finds an insurance office located in a trailer and ask Darla (Tonie Perenski), the agent working there, for help. She calls up her husband Vilmar Sawyer (Matthew McConaughey) to get in his pickup truck and head out to the scene the crash. At the crash site, Vilmar examines the passed out teen with Sean's help, but suddenly breaks the kid's neck and chases Sean down with his pickup. Meanwhile, Heather and Barry head off, leaving Jenny alone. They find a house that ends up belonging to the cannibal family. They're confronted by Leatherface (Robert Jacks) and his brother William Edward "W.E." Sawyer (Joe Stevens). W.E. threatens Barry with a shotgun while Heather is put up on a meat hook by Leatherface. Barry asks W.E. to put the gun down just so that he can use the bathroom. W.E. gives him permission and Barry goes inside to use the bathroom. He discovers a skeleton in the bathtub as well as the remains of previous victims in the room. He is suddenly hit over the head with a sledgehammer and killed by Leatherface. Jenny, now on her own, is attacked by Vilmar in his pickup truck. He loses her, but knows she'll run into Leatherface. Jenny ends up running into and from Leatherface and decides to take shelter in the house. When she runs upstairs to escape from Leatherface, who is cutting the front door down to get in, she finds a stuffed body of a Texas Ranger. Jenny grabs his gun and fires it at Leatherface, scaring him. She jumps out onto the roof but he follows her. Jenny falls off as Leatherface chases her. Leatherface jumps down after her and she is chased into the woods. Jenny runs back to the insurance office only to have Darla subdue her with a little of W.E.'s help. Darla stuffs Jenny into the truck of her car, and after driving by a local pizzeria where she orders some pizzas for the family's dinner, she eventually drives back to the cannibal house where she tells Jenny the reason why the family kills people! Darla explains that for the last few thousand years this "family" of extraterrestrials has been on Earth just to be able to kill. They are in business with governments all over the world as a secret agency who kills people across the globe. Jenny then gets knocked out by Vilmar as she tries to escape. She wakes up at the dinner table sitting among the corpses of the whole cannibal family shown in first three movies. Darla tells Jenny that she can't help, since she was subdued by Vilmar and had an explosive device in her head that will go off if she does anything to help her. Note: It is not sure if Darla is telling the truth or if she is just crazy like the rest of the Sawyer family. Darla also tells Jenny about a bureaucrat, named Mr. Rothman (James Gale), who is a powerful politician and businessman whom visits from time to time. Rothman shows up at the house soon afterward in a limousine, as he occasionally checks up on this and other families around the world. Rothman is furious when he sees Jenny is still alive. He tortures Vilmar using a remote control that activates a device in his leg, giving Jenny a chance to escape in which she kills W.E. who attempts to stop her. After Vilmar regains consciousness, he and Leatherface chase after her. On the road, Vilmar and the transvestite Leatherface catch up to her in which Jenny manages to knock down Vilmar, but is saved when a passing limousine stops for her and Jenny gets inside. It is Rothman whom is her savior. Rothman tells Jenny that Vilmar had really messed up by letting Jenny go, so he decided to rescue Jenny and calls someone over his car phone claiming that it is an assassin to kill Vilmar. Jenny gets angrier as Rothman tells her that he help get her to a nearby hospital and that this was a "spiritual experience". He also claims he will shut down the cannibals killing business world-wide. Once at a hospital, Jenny consults with a cop who tells her that the police will investigate her claims. He also says that they'll figure it all out eventually, since it obviously isn't over. The movie ends with scenes of Leatherface swinging his chainsaw around on the road, angry at the death of Vilmar.