movieId: 1221
title: The Godfather Part II
year: 1974
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0071562/
ratingValue: 
directors: Francis Ford Coppola
actors: Al Pacino, Robert Duvall, Diane Keaton, Robert De Niro, John Cazale, Talia Shire, Lee Strasberg, Michael V. Gazzo, G.D. Spradlin, Richard Bright

synopsis:
Events from Vito Corleone's early life and some time after The Godfather are interwoven in the movie. Vito Nine-year-old Vito Andolini leaves Corleone, Sicily for New York City in 1901 after Don Ciccio, a mafia boss, murders his family. He is registered as Vito Corleone by an immigration officer. By 1917, Vito has a baby son named Sonny and is married in Little Italy. Vito loses his job at the grocery store as a result of Black Hand extortionist Don Fanucci preying on the neighborhood. He and his neighbor Peter Clemenza start stealing to make ends meet, and they have two more kids, Fredo and Michael. Salvatore Tessio, Vito, and Clemenza sell pilfered gowns door-to-door. Fanucci demands $200 in payoffs from Vito and his associates. Because he does not trust Fanucci's strength, Vito makes a lower offer. When they meet, he offers Fanucci $100, which he reluctantly takes. Feeling more confident, Vito finds Fanucci again and murders him in his apartment. As word gets out, Vito's neighbors ask him to protect them from other predatory characters. Vito and his family go to Sicily in 1922 to begin importing olive oil. He visits an elderly Don Ciccio with his business partner Don Tommasino. After getting Ciccio's approval for their venture, he exposes himself and slashes Ciccio's stomach in retaliation against the Andolinis. Michael At his Lake Tahoe compound, Don Michael Corleone hosts a number of meetings in 1958. Hyman Roth, the leader of the Jewish Mob, is represented by Johnny Ola, who pledges assistance in seizing a casino. Frank Pentangeli, a Corleone capo, requests assistance from the Rosato brothers, Roth affiliates, in protecting Bronx territory. Michael declines, which irritates Pentangeli. Senator Pat Geary disparages Michael's Italian ancestry and demands a bribe to obtain the casino license. Michael barely avoids being assassinated that evening. He goes into hiding after leaving consigliere Tom Hagen in charge because he believes there is a traitor in the family. Michael sets up a peace conference between Pentangeli and the Rosatos after privately telling Roth and Pentangeli that he believes the other was responsible for organizing the hit. The brothers try to strangle Pentangeli during the meeting. The brothers are forced to leave when a policeman shows up. Hagen frames Geary for the murder of a prostitute in order to blackmail him into working with the Corleones. In order to invest in his projects under the Batista administration, Roth extends an invitation to Michael to visit Havana. Regarding the government's reaction to the Cuban Revolution, Michael voiced his concerns. When Michael later questions Roth about who gave the order for the Rosatos to kill Pentangeli, Roth gets upset. At a party on New Year's Eve that Michael and Ola attend, Fredo initially acts as though he does not know Ola but eventually breaks down. After determining that Fredo is a traitor, Michael gives the order to kill Roth and Ola. Michael, Fredo, and Roth all leave Cuba separately, while Batista resigns and leaves in the face of rebel advances. Hagen informs Michael that his wife Kay miscarried when they get home. The Corleone family is the subject of an investigation by a Senate committee on organized crime. Pentangeli is given witness protection after consenting to testify against Michael. Fredo admits to Michael that he was unaware that Roth was plotting an assassination when he returns to Nevada. Despite disowning Fredo, Michael gives the order that he not be hurt as long as their mother is living. Hagen and the Sicilian brother of Pentangeli accompany Michael to the committee hearing. The hearing ends in a commotion when Pentangeli, having seen them, takes back his claim that Michael is involved in organized crime. After having an abortion, Kay plans to leave Michael and take their kids with her. Michael banishes her by herself after hitting her out of rage. Michael rushes to tie up loose ends after his mother passes away. After being denied entry into Israel, Roth leaves for the United States. He is assassinated at the airport by Corleone capo Rocco Lampone, who is shot dead while attempting to flee. Hagen pays Pentangeli a visit at the army barracks where he is being detained, and they talk about how unsuccessful plotters against a Roman emperor might end their lives in order to protect their loved ones. Later, Pentangeli is discovered dead with his wrists slit in his bathtub. Michael is in the compound watching as Enforcer Al Neri takes Fredo fishing and shoots him. Michael remembers Vito's 50th birthday celebration on December 7, 1941, while he is sitting by the lake. Michael shocked Hagen and infuriated Sonny by announcing that he had left college to join the Marines while the family waited for Vito. Only Fredo agreed with his choice. Michael sat by himself at the table as Vito arrived, but the others greeted him.