movieId: 5787
title: The Truth About Charlie
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0270707/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jonathan Demme
actors: Olga Sékulic, Stephen Dillane, Françoise Bertin, Thandiwe Newton, Cassius Kumar Wilkinson, Sakina Jaffrey, Mark Wahlberg, Christine Boisson, Simon Abkarian, Christophe Salengro

synopsis:
British newlywed Regina Lambert (Thandiwe Newton) lives in Paris with her husband Charlie (Stephen Dillane). She returns home following a short vacation (with her friend Sylvia (Sakina Jaffrey)), determined to divorce Charlie, only to discover their apartment has been stripped bare and that her husband has been murdered. Commandant Dominique (Christine Boisson) is already in the apartment, investigating the crime with Lieutenant Dessalines (Simon Abkarian). Dominique tells Regina that Charles body was found near the train tracks outside of Paris. Charles was an art dealer, as per Regina's knowledge, and is Swiss. But she is shown Charles's many passports with different names. She is told that Charles sold everything in the apartment via 3 auction houses. He got $1.8 MM, which is now missing. Regina is soon being trailed by Lee Il-Sang (Park Joong-Hoon), Lola Jansco (Lisa Gay Hamilton) and Emil Zadapec (Ted Levine).
Regina is soon reunited with a mysterious stranger Lewis Bartholomew (introduced as Joshua Peters) (Mark Wahlberg) she met on her holiday. Joshua had met Regina at the airport and given her a lift to her home. He later returned to her home, when she was alone and gave her company. He checks her into a hotel and finds that they are being followed by Dominique. Carson J. Dyle (Tim Robbins) contacts Regina, saying that he is Lewis Bartholomew, and represents the US Govt. He reveals that Charlie helped defense collaboration between UK and US. He shows her a photo of Charlie with Lee, Lola and Emil. 3 years ago, the 4 worked together on a mission (Operation Verify) and the sum involved is $6 MM. Lewis wants Regina to help him to get the money back. He says the trio are after the money as well. Next, Lola approaches Regina at a flea market and says Operation verify involved 46 diamonds. She says Charlie stole the diamonds from his partners. Regina is rescued by Joshua. Back at the hotel, Regina is attacked by Emil, but again Joshua fights him off.
When Regina is in the shower, Joshua goes through her bag. She won't reveal that she was approached by Lewis and told by Lee, Emil and Lola. At night, Emil again calls by phone and says that Joshua is in fact Carson J. Dyle, and not to be trusted. He is after the money. Regina asks Joshua to leave. Joshua goes straight to another hotel room, revealing that he is indeed working with Lee, Lola and Emil. Regina calls Lewis and tells him about the events and goes to meet her.
Lewis tells him that Dyle was a member of the Special Ops team. He then left the Army and went to work for Charlie. Charlie was the middleman between US Govt and the militia he contracted to carry out missions that US Govt could not sanction. In 1998 Charlie, Dyle, and a team including Lee, Lola and Emil carried $6 MM in 46 diamonds as ransom to an eastern European country, 40 Kms from Sarajevo. The team was ambushed, and Charlie and the trio were the only ones who survived. Dyle died. The survivors hid the diamonds with a plan to extract them together but seems like Charlie broke the pact and got to them sooner. Regina returns and Joshua explains that he is Alexander Dyle, and Carson was his brother who did die in 1998. Regina tries to leave for London by train, but it is also boarded by the trio and Joshua follows. Emil has a heart attack on the train, and it is brought back to Paris. Dominique speaks to Regina alone and says she needs her help to find Charles's killer. Regina goes back to Joshua and the trio, and they go through the contents of her bag and find nothing. They ask about the trip Regina took with Charles to Sarajevo.
That night, Regina is attacked by a car driven by Charles's mother. But Lola sacrifices herself and saves Regina. As she dies, she tells Regina to be wary of Dyle. Lee investigates at the flea market (a place where Charles visited before his death). Lee finds that a local trade made a fortune trading in stamps just one day before his death. Lee instantly figures that the envelope in Charles's bag had 3 stamps on it, and the diamonds were converted to stamps. Joshua was tracking Lee and figures out the same thing. Both rush back to the hotel. Regina returns to her room and finds Lee dead. She finds Joshua in her room, ransacking the place and assumes that Joshua killed Lee. Regina runs away from Joshua, who follows. Regina runs into Lewis, and it is revealed that Lewis is in-fact Carson Dyle. Joshua is in fact Lewis Bartholomew (Special Investigator from US Govt). Carson reveals that he survived that night in Yugoslavia. Charles knew Carson was alive but told everyone that he died. Carson was saved by a local farmer. He got better and tracked Charles to Paris. Carson admits to killing Charles. Regina reveals the envelope with the 3 rare stamps. She throws the envelope into the fire. Dominique moves to arrest Carson. Lee is alive and is shocked to see Carson alive. Carson surrenders to Dominique.
Regina later visits Lewis at his office and turns over the originals to Lewis, saying that the ones she burnt were laser copies, to take money out of the equation. They get together as a couple. Charles's mother serves food to Carson in prison, and he falls dead shortly thereafter.