movieId: 1114
title: The Funeral
year: 1996
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0116378/
ratingValue: 
directors: Abel Ferrara
actors: Christopher Walken, Chris Penn, Annabella Sciorra, Isabella Rossellini, Vincent Gallo, Benicio Del Toro, Gretchen Mol, John Ventimiglia, Paul Hipp, Victor Argo

synopsis:
The film opens in a movie theatre where Johnny Tempio (Vincent Gallo) is watching Humphrey Bogart in "The Petrified Forest" talking about death. After the titles, we find ourselves at the home of the Tempio family where a coffin is brought into the house. Mourning the passage of their beloved brother Johnny are Chez and Ray. Ray is cold and calculating, while Chez is hot tempered. Flashbacks demonstrate Johnny to be more sensitive. Exposure to communist meetings as a spy sways Johnny's opinions. The chief suspect in Johnny's murder is rival gangster Gaspare Spoglia. Ray and Chez swear revenge. Ray's wife, Jean, opposes the campaign of retribution and the violence it will bring, while Chez's wife, Clara, struggles to deal with her husband's obsessive nature. Ray has Gaspare abducted for interrogation and they go to see Johnny's body. He is satisfied by Gaspare's claim of innocence, in part because he says that gangsters are superstitious, believing that the wounds of the corpse will start bleeding in the presence of the killer. Therefore the killer will not willingly enter the dead victim's presence. Gaspare is comfortable to be in the presence of the victim, so is not the killer. Ray releases Gaspare but instructs his men to murder him later. As it turns out, Johnny was not murdered by rival gangsters, but rather, by a man who claimed Johnny had raped his girlfriend. Ray's men identify him by tracking the car he had driven to commit the crime. Pressed by Ray, the killer confesses that he had wanted revenge because Johnny had beaten him up in front of his girlfriend and friends, embarrassing him in the process. Ray kills him. As he buries the now-deceased killer of Johnny, Chez reflects on his brothers' lives before the tragedy. He then returns to Ray's house and shoots and kills Ray and his two bodyguards in cold blood. After that, Chez shoots Johnny's corpse, lying dead in the casket. Chez then turns the gun on himself, despite Clara's pleas, as he refuses to live without his brothers.