movieId: 4440
title: The Big Boss
year: 1971
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0067824/
ratingValue: 
directors: Wei Lo, Chia-Hsiang Wu
actors: Bruce Lee, Maria Yi, James Tien, Nora Miao, Kun Li, Ying-Chieh Han, Tony Liu, Shan Chin, Hua-Sze Li, Marilyn Bautista

synopsis:
Cheng Chao-an (Pronounced "Cheng Chow-On") (Bruce Lee) is a Chinese man who moves to Pak Chong, Thailand, to live with his adopted family and to work in an ice factory.
He meets his cousins Hsu Chien (Pronounced "Shu Sheng") (James Tien) and Hsu's younger brother by accident when Hsu Chien stands up to local street thugs who steal dumplings from Hsu's brother. Cheng refrains from getting involved despite being tempted to, as he swore to his mother to never participate in any fighting. He wears a jade amulet around his neck as a reassurance of his pledge. Cheng begins his work at the ice factory. When an ice block is accidentally broken, a bag of white powdery drugs falls out. Two of Cheng's cousins Wang and Chang pick up the bag and are told to see the manager later that night. The factory is actually a front for a drug smuggling ring led by Hsiao Mi (a.k.a. the Big Boss) (Han Ying-Chieh). When Cheng's cousins refuse to join them, the factory manager (Chan Chue) sends his thugs including the factory foreman (Chom) to kill them and dispose of their bodies, thereby stopping the cat from getting out of the bag and restricting any of those who know. Hsiao Chiun (Lau Wing) is Hsiao Mi's Son and runs the daily drug deliveries with the ice factory manager. Hsiao Chiun has his eyes on Chiao Mei, who is Hsu Chien and Cheng Chao-An's sister. Hsu Chien and Ah Pei (Billy Chan Wui-Ngai), another one of Cheng's cousins, go to Hsiao Mi's Mansion to find out what happened to the two cousins. Hsu doubts Hsiao's claims that he doesn't know anything and threatens to go to the police. Hsiao sets his gang on the duo as a result, and after a brutal battle, they are both killed with their bodies hidden as to keep the boss's crime operations a secret.
When the Chinese workers at the ice factory learn that Hsu is missing as well, they start a riot against the Thai management, which leads to a brawl with the hired thugs, who come in a red bus mid-fight. During the chaos, one of the thugs accidentally rips off and breaks Cheng's amulet. Enraged, Cheng jumps into the brawl and beats some of the thugs, causing them to flee immediately. To reduce tensions, the ice factory manager makes Cheng a foreman, inviting him to a dinner that night. This later causes much unease for Cheng's family and friends, who believe that Cheng is growing arrogant and spending more time reveling in his new position than helping to look for their missing brothers. They grow to resent him, all except Chiao Mei (Maria Yi), his sister, who stands up for him. Cheng gets drunk at the dinner party and is seduced by Sun Wu Man (played by Marilyn Bautista), a prostitute who attended the dinner. Cheng goes to meet Hsiao Chiun, who meets Chen and assures him that he is sparing no effort to find Hsu Cheng. But this was all a show for Cheng. Hsiao Chiun meanwhile wants to grab Chiao Mei for the pleasure of his father. Sun later warns Cheng that his life is in danger and reveals that Hsiao Mi is running a drug trafficking operation. Immediately after Cheng leaves, Hsiao's son, Hsiao Chiun, sneaks in and kills Sun by throwing a knife at her heart from behind. Cheng breaks into the factory and first finds the drugs before discovering a hand, the head of Sun, and the head of Hsu Chien with a horrified face in the ice blocks. He is surrounded by Hsiao Chiun and a group of his men. Cheng fights his way out, killing Hsiao Chiun and his gang in the process. (The notorious "saw in the head" shot took place in this fight but was cut by the Hong Kong censors before the film went on general release.) He returns home to find that his remaining family members have been murdered, while Chiao Mei has gone missing. Mourning his loss by a river, he vows to exact his revenge at all costs, even if it means breaking his oath of non-violence. Cheng subsequently storms Hsiao Mi's mansion to fight him and his men. Meanwhile, one of Hsiao Mi's disgruntled slaves frees Chiao Mei, who was being held hostage by Hsiao Mi in a cramped room used as a prison cell. She runs away to get help from the Thai police. Cheng finally kills Hsiao Mi after a fierce fight, by deflecting the knife Mi throws it at him with his shoe. Once he knows that Chiao Mei is safe (as she came running along with the police division), he surrenders to the police when they arrive at the mansion and is arrested. The movie ends as the crowd walks back to the police car to leave the mansion.