movieId: 1237
title: The Seventh Seal
year: 1957
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0050976/
ratingValue: 
directors: Ingmar Bergman
actors: Gunnar Björnstrand, Bengt Ekerot, Nils Poppe, Max von Sydow, Bibi Andersson, Inga Gill, Maud Hansson, Inga Landgré, Gunnel Lindblom, Bertil Anderberg

synopsis:
In the 14th Century, Swedish knight Antonius Block (Max von Sydow) returns home after the Crusades and heads to his castle where he left his wife Karin (Inga Landre) ten years prior. His squire, Jons (Gunnar Bjornstrand), prays every morning, but the knight has lost his faith. Antonius has seen so much death and suffering in the world, especially how the Black Plague ravages across Europe. Death personified (Bengt Ekerot) comes to claim the Antonius and Jons, but the knight convinces him to play a game of chess for their souls. If Antonius wins, Death will go on his way, and if Death wins, the knight will accept his fate. Death tells him that he never loses. The chess game begins. Antonius asks Death about the existence of God, but Death will not answer. Before he dies, Antonius want knowledge. That is his only wish. Other travelers are a troupe of actors who put on religious plays. Jof (Nils Poppe) is a simple juggler who believes he sees visions of the Virgin Mary. He and his wife Mia (Bibi Andersson) love each other very much and hope they can give their baby, Michael, a happy life. Jonas Skat (Erik Strandmark) is an irresponsible oaf always on the lookout for women. During a performance, Skat runs off with Lisa (Inga Gill) the wife of Plog (Ake Fridell) the local blacksmith. Jons comes upon Ravel, robbing the dead and attempting to rape a young woman. Ravel is the man who convinced Antonius to go on the Crusades and now a non-believer. Jons chases him away, telling him that he will cut his face with a knife the next time he sees him. Jons invites the young women to come with him. Jof goes to the Embarrassment Inn to drink beer. Ravel and Plog bully and threaten him. Jons rescues Jof and, true to his word, cuts a deep gash in Ravel's face. Antonius comes upon the actors' campsite. He shares wild strawberries with Mia and Jof and is very taken with their kindness. He almost forgets his own unhappiness. Meanwhile, the Plague spreads through Sweden. People march from town to town flagellating themselves for their sins. The believe that the Plague is God's punishment upon them. Plog, Jof, Mia, their child, and the young woman join Antonius and Jons on their way to the castle. They meet Skat and Lisa. Plog threatens, Skat, but both men are too cowardly to actually fight each other. Skat pretends to kill himself and everyone else goes off. Death now comes and truly takes Skat's life. Antonius the Knight and Jons witness a young girl named Tyan (Maude Hansson) being burned as a witch. They try to ameliorate her pain, but see she is too close to death to dare a rescue. Antonius and Jons come upon Ravel, who is dying from the Plague, but they cannot help him. At the same time in the alternate realm Antonius, about to lose his chess game, knocks over the board before the final moves. The distracted Death picks up the pieces and does not see Jof and Mia ride away. The travelers finally reach the castle. Karin has waited all these years for Antonius return. She reads the Bible from the book of Revelations. Death arrives at the castle. Antonius prays to God for mercy "because we are small and frighted and ignorant." At daybreak, the sun comes out. The Plague has passed by Jof, Mia, and the baby. Jof sees Death leaving Antonius, Jons, Ravel, the young woman, Plog and Lisa on a dance into the dark land.