movieId: 7318
title: The Passion of the Christ
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0335345/
ratingValue: 
directors: Mel Gibson
actors: Jim Caviezel, Maia Morgenstern, Christo Jivkov, Francesco De Vito, Monica Bellucci, Mattia Sbragia, Toni Bertorelli, Luca Lionello, Hristo Shopov, Claudia Gerini

synopsis:
Gethsemane in 'Medias Resas' in the dead of night some hours after the last supper. During supper Jesus had mentioned danger and betrayal.
Jesus (Jim Caviezel) prays and is tempted by Satan (Rosalinda Celentano), as his sweat turns into blood and a serpent emerges from Satan's guise. Jesus rebukes him by crushing the serpent's head. Jesus prays to his father to rise up and defend him, to save him from the traps set for him. Jesus says that he has faith in God and that is where he takes refuge. His apostles, Peter (Francesco De Vito), James (Chokri Ben Zagden), and John (Christo Jivkov) sleep. After receiving thirty pieces of silver from the highly feared Hebrew priests of the Temple in Jerusalem, one of Jesus' other apostles, Judas Iscariot (Luca Lionello), tells them the location where his teacher is and the priests send a contingent of guards to arrest Jesus for heresy. In the woods outside Gethsemane, Judas approaches with the temple guards and betrays Jesus with a kiss on his cheek. As the guards move in to arrest Jesus, Peter intervenes and attacks them, cutting off the ear of Malchus (Roberto Bestazoni), one of the guards, but Jesus tells Peter to stop with the violence and magically heals Malchus' ear.
As the disciples flee, the guards secure Jesus and beat him on the way to the Sanhedrin while a distraught Malchus remains behind. Awoken from her sleep, Jesus' mother Mary senses something is wrong and speaks with Mary Magdalene.
John runs and tells Jesus' mother, Mary (Maia Morgenstern), as well as Mary Magdalene (Monica Bellucci) of the arrest, and Peter follows Jesus at a distance who is severely beaten by the Temple guards on their way back to Jerusalem. At the Hebrew Temple, the head priest, Caiaphas (Mattia Sbragia), holds a trial of Jesus during which false accusations are made against Jesus. The priests says that Jesus considers himself to be King of the Hebrews, and that he cures the people with the use of forbidden magic.
Some priests and Pharisees, who secretly support Jesus, object to the trial being conducted in secret, in the middle of the night and without the presence of the other council members but are expelled from the court. When questioned by Caiaphas whether he is the son of God, Jesus replies "I am". Caiaphas is horrified and tears his robes, and Jesus is condemned to death for blasphemy. Each of the priests slaps Jesus after the verdict and spits on his face.
Upon entering the Temple, Peter is confronted by a mob of Hebrew spectators who recognize him being one of Jesus followers and confront him. Three times Peter denies knowing Jesus. Remembering Jesus' precise prediction, he weeps bitterly and flees. After Jesus is dragged off, Mother Mary and Mary Magdalene clean up and Magdalene reminisces on Jesus saving her from a stoning during her darkest time. Meanwhile, the remorseful Judas attempts to return the money in order have Jesus freed, but he is refused by the priests. Judas then spits on the bag of silver and throws it at their feet and leaves. Tormented by demons and his guilt, he flees the city and hangs himself with a rope from a dead donkey at dawn.
Jesus is kept in captivity all night by the priests. Caiaphas brings Jesus before Pontius Pilate (Hristo Naumov Shopov), the local Roman governor of Judia, to be condemned to death. But after questioning Jesus, the Latin-speaking Pilate (who is fluent in Jesus' native Amaraic language) finds no reason to convict him after he is told by his wife, Claudia (Claudia Gerini), about a bad dream she had the night before about condemning a holy man to death. So instead, Pilate sends Jesus to the court of King Herod Antipas (Luca De Dominicis), as Jesus is from Herod's ruling town of Nazareth. Antipas deems him to be a harmless fool and returns him. After Jesus is returned, Pilate offers the crowd that he will chastise Jesus for heresy and then will set him free. Pilate attempts to have Jesus freed by giving the people an option of freeing Jesus or the violent criminal Barabbas (Pietro Sarubbi). To Pilate's dismay, the hostile and religious crowd demands to have Barabbas freed, and Jesus killed.
Attempting to appease the crowd, Pilate orders that Jesus simply be flogged. The Roman guards brutally scourge him with staves and whips, taking pleasure in doing so. Satan also appears only to Jesus, watching him in the crowd while taunting him with a hideous baby. Pilate has Jesus brutally scourged. The Roman guards take Jesus to a barn where they place a crown of thorns on his head and hurl insults at him. He is presented before Pilate and the crowd, but Caiaphas, supported by the crowd, continues demanding that he be crucified. Unwilling to instigate an uprising, Pilate washes his hands and orders his crucifixion, claiming no responsibility. As Jesus carries the cross along the Via Dolorosa to Calvary, with two thieves, Dismas and Gesmas, following behind, while Satan observes his suffering sadistically. Along the way, he is constantly harassed by the guards and rampant mob, until he is comforted by his mother momentarily. Veronica (Rossella Vetrano) wipes Jesus's bloodied face with her veil until the Roman guards grab her and shove her on her way. Simon of Cyrene (Jarreth Merz) is unwillingly pressed into carrying the cross for Jesus, who by this time is too weak to carry the large wooden cross by himself. On a hill outside Jerusalem called Golgotha (Amaraic for 'Hill of Skulls'), Jesus is then crucified with his wrists and feet nailed to the cross. One of the thieves, Gesmas, mocks Jesus suggesting he get off that cross to prove that he is the Son of God. He prays to God to forgive his tormentors, provides salvation to Dismas who is crucified beside him for his strong faith and repentance, and comforts his mother. After Jesus gives up his spirit and dies, a single drop of rain falls from the sky, triggering an earthquake which destroys the Temple and rips the cloth covering the Holy of Holies in two, to the horror of Caiaphas and the other priests. Satan is then shown screaming in defeat. The Roman soldiers then kill the two criminals by breaking their legs, while one of them rams a spear into Jesus' chest to make sure that he is dead. Jesus is brought down from the cross as Mary and Mary Magdalene weep for him. In the final scene, Jesus then rises from the dead as he leaves his tomb where his is buried with the wounds in his hands, feet, and side still visible.