movieId: 6021
title: The American Friend
year: 1977
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0075675/
ratingValue: 
directors: Wim Wenders
actors: Dennis Hopper, Bruno Ganz, Lisa Kreuzer, Gérard Blain, Nicholas Ray, Samuel Fuller, Peter Lilienthal, Daniel Schmid, Sandy Whitelaw, Jean Eustache

synopsis:
Jonathan Zimmerman (Bruno Ganz) is a frame maker. He is of Swiss nationality, but runs a small shop in Hamburg, Germany and makes very little money... a concern since he knows that he has leukemia and wants to leave his wife Marianna (Lisa Kreuzer) and their son Daniel enough on to get by when he passes on. In New York City, Tom Ripley (Dennis Hopper) an American who owns a mansion near Hamburg, secures another painting form the artist Derwatt (Nicholas Ray). Tom has been getting good prices for the art because Derwatt is living as a recluse and the public thinks that he is dead. At a Hamburg auction house where Marianne works, the Derwatt painting is sold. Tom is introduced to Jonathan, who knows Tom's bad reputation as a swindler and refuses to shake hands, saying rudely "I've heard of you." Tom feels slightly insulted. When Raul Minot (Gerard Blain) asks Tom if he know someone now known in the crime world who could assassinate a couple of American Mafia men, Tom thinks of Jonathan. Knowing all about Jonathan's illness, Tom spreads a rumor that he has taken a turn for the worse. Jonathan becomes paranoid. He refuses to believe his doctor when the doctor tells him that there is no change in his condition. Raoul proposes to Jonathan that he kill two Mafia men for a large sum of money. Jonathan says 'no' to the offer, but can't get the idea out of his mind. Jonathan thinks that he could give the money to his family if the job is successful. Raoul tells Jonathan that he has arranged for him to a specialist in Paris, France where the first murder is to take place. Jonathan agrees to go to Paris, but says he won't commit the crime. The results from the Paris doctor (Sandy Whitelaw) look bad for Jonathan. As a result, Jonathan agrees to the murder-for-hire contract. He follows a man through the Paris Metro, shoots him in the back and kills him. He slips away unable to believe what he has done. But he feels giddy and proud. Jonathan returns to Hamburg. Tom begins to hang around Jonathan's shop. He becomes friendly with him and envies his ability to work with his hands. Tom is beginning to feeling like he's in a daze. Raoul wants Jonathan to kill a man from a second, rival Mafia faction on a Munich train. Jonathan gets on the train although he says he won't commit the crime. Four Mafia men get on. When the one Jonathan is to kill discovers him in the WC preparing a garott, Jonathan becomes involved in a physically fight he knows he cannot win. But suddenly, Tom appears and kills the man. A second Mafia man appears in which Tom and Jonathan push him and the dead man out of the train. Jonathan thinks that Tom and Raoul are in cahoots, but Tom insists not. Marianne doesn't understand where Jonathan got all of this money from his two murder-for-hire contract jobs. She knows that he is lying to her about how he acquired the money. As a result, she moves out with Daniel. Meanwhile, the Mafia has tracked Raoul down, bombing his apartment in Paris Tom picks up Jonathan and brings him to his mansion. A Mafia hit man shows up and both Tom and Jonathan kill him. Near the house, they spot an ambulance. Raoul is a prisoner inside. Jonathan and Tom toss the Mafia leader to his death down a long flight of stairs. Both Tom and Jonathan hug in a rather sensual embrace. Marianne arrives at the mansion. She tells Jonathan that the Paris hospital reports were face. Jonathan says that he guessed correctly that they were fake from the outset. Marianne gets into and drives Tom's car, following Tom in the ambulance to the shore. Jonathan goes to sleep in the car. At daybreak, on the beach, Tom blows up the ambulance. He is surprised to see Jonathan and Marianne drive off and leave without him. As Marianne drives away, Jonathan dies... having succumbed to his illness. Showing no emotion, Marianne gets out of the car and begins to walk away. In the final scene, Derwatt waits for Tom in New York City.