movieId: 1687
title: The Jackal
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119395/
ratingValue: 
directors: Michael Caton-Jones
actors: Bruce Willis, Richard Gere, Sidney Poitier, Diane Venora, Mathilda May, J.K. Simmons, Richard Lineback, John Cunningham, Jack Black, Tess Harper

synopsis:
After the collapse of the Soviet Union, mafia proliferated in Russia and used that as a base to expand operations into the US. To combat the threat a joint US-Russian law enforcement operation called the MVD was launched. A joint mission of the American FBI and the Russian MVD leads to the death of the younger brother of an Azerbaijani mobster Terek Murad (David Hayman). The operation was led by FBI Deputy Director Carter Preston and Russian Police Major Valentina Koslova. Koslova shoots Murad's brother when he tries to stab her during his arrest at a Russian nightclub. Murad finds out and declares war on the FBI, which he says was started by the FBI.
In retaliation, Murad hires an ex-KGB asset, an international hit-man operating under the code-name "the Jackal" (Bruce Willis), to assassinate an unidentified prominent American for $70 million. With the assassination, Murad wants to send a very public message and strike fear into the heart of the Americans. The meeting took place in a hotel outside Helsinki. Two weeks later, the MVD capture and interrogate one of Murad's henchmen, Viktor Politovsky (Yuri Stepanov). The MVD was monitoring Murad and knew that he was holed up inside the Helsinki hotel for 5 days and Victor was the only contact with the outside world.
They discover the assassination plot. The interrogation, coupled with recovered documents, leads the FBI and MVD to suspect that FBI Director Donald Brown (John Cunningham) is the intended target. The Jackal begins his preparations for the assassination, utilizing a series of disguises and stolen IDs in the process. He also orders a heavy caliber machine gun, to be delivered to an address in Quebec, Canada.
The FBI learns of one person who can identify him. FBI Deputy Director Carter Preston (Sidney Poitier) and Russian Police Major Valentina Koslova (Diane Venora) turn to a former Irish Republican Army sniper named Declan Mulqueen (Richard Gere), who had a relationship with a Basque Separatist named Isabella Zanconia (Mathilda May), who they believe can identify The Jackal. Mulqueen reveals that he knows the Jackal and agrees to help in exchange for his release as well as U.S. citizenship and safe haven for Zancona. It becomes apparent that Mulqueen has a personal motive for hunting the Jackal: the assassin wounded Zanconia while she was pregnant with Mulqueen's child, causing a miscarriage. Zanconia provides information that can help identify the Jackal, including that he is a United States Army Special Forces veteran with combat experience from his stationing in El Salvador and describes him as sociopath with no emotions. Zancona discreetly slips Mulqueen a key to a drop box containing a clean passport and $10,000 cash to return to Ireland. However, Preston had earlier warned Mulqueen that if he ever escaped, refused to cooperate, or if an IRA squad tries to rescue him, he would be shot. Meanwhile, when the Jackal arrives in Montreal to collect a large caliber weapon, a contact notifies him that hijackers are pursuing it. The Jackal kills one hijacker with an extremely poisonous chemical and evades the others.
The Jackal hires gunsmith Ian Lamont (Jack Black) to design and build a mount for the weapon he intends to use for the assassination. The Jackal demands that all design specs be turned over to him, and he also requires Lamont's complete confidentiality. Underestimating the danger posed by the Jackal, Lamont demands more money in exchange for keeping quiet. The Jackal responds by brutally murdering Lamont using the very equipment Lamont built. The FBI discovers Lamont's body and, with the help of Mulqueen, deduce that the Jackal intends to utilize a long-range heavy machine gun for the assassination. With the help of a Russian mole in the FBI, the Jackal realizes he is being tracked by Mulqueen with assistance from Zanconia. He infiltrates Zanconia's house after receiving an FBI access code from his insider. Instead of Zanconia, however, he finds Koslova and Agent Witherspoon (J.K. Simmons), promptly killing Witherspoon and mortally wounding Koslova. The Jackal gives Koslova a taunting message regarding Mulqueen - "He can't protect his women" - which she delivers to Mulqueen moments before her death. The Jackal sails across the Great Lakes to Chicago, where he escapes the FBI.
As the Jackal drives to Washington, D.C., Mulqueen deduces from the Jackal's mocking statement that his target is not Director Brown, but in fact the First Lady of the United States (Tess Harper), who is due to give a major public speech. The Jackal, masquerading as a gay man, dates Douglas, a man he encountered earlier in a bar; unbeknownst to Douglas, he uses his garage to store his machine gun. When a news report exposes the Jackal's identity, he kills Douglas. On the date of the First Lady's speech, the weapon is hidden in a minivan parked near the speaker podium, with the Jackal planning to shoot the First Lady via remote control. However, before the Jackal can take his shot, Mulqueen uses a sniper rifle to destroy the weapon's scope and takes off in pursuit of the Jackal, while another marksman blows up the van's fuel tank. The Jackal blindly opens fire before his vehicle is destroyed, and Preston is shot and wounded while tackling the First Lady to safety. Following a chase through the Washington Metro tunnels, Mulqueen confronts the Jackal, who is then shot from behind by Zancona. However, the Jackal's gun discharges a shot, and Mulqueen is also wounded. While Zancona tends to Mulqueen, the severely wounded Jackal retrieves a spare handgun: seeing this, Mulqueen grabs Zancona's pistol and shoots the assassin several times, finally killing him. A few days later, Preston and Mulqueen witness the Jackal's burial in an unmarked grave. Preston reveals that he is returning to Russia to pursue Terek Murad and his gang, and that Mulqueen's request to be released was denied but he will likely be moved to a minimum security prison. Preston also remarks that his heroics in saving the First Lady have made him "untouchable" within the FBI: knowing his current clout will prevent any backlash against him, he turns his back on Mulqueen, allowing him to go free.