movieId: 2089
title: The Rescuers Down Under
year: 1990
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0100477/
ratingValue: 
directors: Hendel Butoy, Mike Gabriel
actors: Bob Newhart, Eva Gabor, John Candy, Tristan Rogers, Adam Ryen, George C. Scott, Wayne Robson, Douglas Seale, Frank Welker

synopsis:
The Australian Outback is full of all manner of exotic critters. The Outback is littered with majestic rock formations surrounded with wide open plains, that harbors a large variety of flora and fauna.
A Six year old boy named Cody (Adam Ryen) lives in a house in the Outback. Cody helps animals in the wild and is summoned by Faloo (Carla Meyer) a female red kangaroo. Faloo tells Cody that Marahute, the Golden eagle needs Cody's help. Cody has to climb a tall cliff face to reach Marahute, who was tied up with ropes. As Cody cuts the ropes with a knife, Marahute suddenly spreads her wings, pushing Cody off the cliff and falling freely to the ground below. Marahute then flies at incredible speed to save Cody mid-air.
Cody befriends Marahute (Frank Welker), a rare golden eagle, who shows Cody her nest and eggs and gives him one of her feathers. Cody later falls into an animal trap set by Percival C. McLeach (George C. Scott), a local poacher who killed Marahute's mate and is wanted by the Australian Rangers, while rescuing a mouse who was the bait in the trap. As soon as the trap was triggered, an electronic signal is sent out, informing McLeach of the same. Mcleach arrives in his vehicle before Cody can escape from the deep hole dug in the ground. McLeach's vehicle is a monstrous contraption that runs on tank tracks and has a crane upfront and a cage at the back for captured animals. Realizing Cody has Marahute's feather and must know her location, McLeach kidnaps the boy and throws his backpack to a float of crocodiles. The Rangers find it and believe that Cody has been eaten. The rescued mouse hurries to an RAS (Rescue Aid Society) outpost in Australia shortly after Cody's capture to inform the operator of the kidnapping, from which a telegram is sent to the Rescue Aid Society headquarters in New York City, travelling from the Outback to Marshall Islands, to Hawaiian Islands, to Los Angeles, to Denver, to St. Louis, to Chicago, to Washington DC and finally to New York. Bernard (Bob Newhart) and Miss Bianca (Eva Gabor), the RAS' elite field agents, are assigned to the mission, interrupting Bernard's attempts to propose marriage to Bianca. Bernard had taken Bianca to a fancy restaurant but was too nervous to complete his proposal as he dropped the ring on the floor. Before Bernard could retrieve it and come back, Bianca gets the message from RAS HQ to leave for Australia immediately.
They go to find Orville the albatross, who aided them before, but discover that he is no longer in service and his brother Wilbur (John Candy) has taken over for him. Despite the harsh winter conditions in the city (New York was experiencing a blizzard with high winds and snow), he agrees to fly them to Australia as he disapproves of child abduction. Wilbur believes that every child should be free. Once again, Bernard and Bianca are strapped inside a sardine can, which is attached to Wilbur's back with a belt. Wilbur cannot make such a long flight himself, so he stows away in the cargo hold of a Qantas plane going to Australia. Exiting the plane over Sydney, Wilbur flies the duo to an Outback town of Mugwomp.
Wilbur was having back pain the entire trip. Meanwhile, McLeach takes Cody deeper into the Outback and his mother starts looking for him when he does not return home. The Rangers deliver Cody's backpack to his mother and close the case. Once in Australia, they meet Jake (Tristan Rogers), a hopping mouse who is the RAS' local regional operative. Jake becomes infatuated with Bianca and flirts with her, much to Bernard's dismay. He serves as their "tour guide" and protector in search of the boy.
Bernard tries to find any opportunity to propose to Bianca but is always interrupted. Wilbur accidentally bends his spinal column out of shape trying to help them, so Jake sends him to the hospital (an old ambulance). The doctor straps Wilbur in ropes and uses a cane to straighten his spine. As Wilbur is in pain, the doctor gives him a double dose of tranquilizer, which is delivered into Wilbur's behind through a shot gun which shoots 2 injections into Wilbur.
Wilbur refuses to undergo surgery due to the doctor planning to use dangerous tools, such as a chainsaw, but his back is straightened as he fights to escape the medical mice. He flies off in search of his friends. At McLeach's hideout, Cody refuses to divulge Marahute's whereabouts. McLeach says that a bird of that size if worth a fortune and offers to split it 50:50 with Cody. The other animals in McLeach's captivity are Red (Peter Firth) a male red kangaroo, Frank (Wayne Robson) a fearful and erratic frill-necked lizard, and Krebbs (Douglas Seale) a pessimistic koala,.
After McLeach leaves, Cody organizes the other captives to try and break out of their prison. But their efforts are thwarted by McLeach's pet lizard named Joanna. Joanna has a voracious appetite for eggs. Meanwhile, Jake, Bianca and Bernard reach the location where McLeach had kept Cody captive. Realizing that protecting Marahute's eggs is Cody's weak spot, McLeach tricks Cody into thinking someone else killed Marahute and releases him, knowing that Cody will go to her nest. Cody does and McLeach soon captures Marahute along with Cody, Jake, and Bianca. The trio had followed Cody when McLeach went after him in his Outback vehicle, by jumping on it.
Bernard manages to hide Marahute's eggs from Joanna by replacing them with rocks that look just like eggs. Wilbur now arrives at Marahute's nest and finds Bernard. Bernard says that McLeach had captured Bianca. Bernard goes to rescue Bianca and asks Wilbur to sit on the eggs and incubate them. McLeach takes his captives to Crocodile Falls, a huge waterfall at the end of the river he threw Cody's backpack into. He ties Cody up and hangs him over the float of crocodiles, intent on feeding Cody to them to eliminate him as a witness. Bernard, riding a razorback pig, he tamed using a horse whispering technique he learned from Jake, arrives and disables McLeach's vehicle before he can succeed.
Bernard then steals the key to the animal cage and passes it on to Bianca and Jake so they can free themselves and Marahute. McLeach then attempts to shoot the rope holding Cody above the water, but Bernard tricks Joanna into crashing into McLeach, sending both of them into the water. The crocodiles turn their attention to McLeach and Joanna. Behind them, Cody falls into the water as the damaged rope breaks. As Joanna flees to the bank, McLeach fends off and taunts the crocodiles, forgetting about the waterfall until it is too late. He desperately attempts to swim to shore but is washed over the waterfall to his death. Bernard dives into the water and holds Cody long enough for Jake and Bianca to free Marahute, allowing the eagle to save Cody and Bernard just as they go over the waterfall. Bernard, desperate to prevent any further interruptions, finally proposes to Bianca and she immediately accepts, while Jake salutes him with new-found respect. Safe at last, the group departs for Cody's home. Meanwhile, Wilbur is protecting Marahute's eggs, and they hatch, and one of the eaglets bites him, to his dismay.