movieId: 2803
title: The Pelican Brief
year: 1993
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0107798/
ratingValue: 
directors: Alan J. Pakula
actors: Julia Roberts, Denzel Washington, Sam Shepard, John Heard, Tony Goldwyn, James Sikking, William Atherton, Robert Culp, Stanley Tucci, Hume Cronyn

synopsis:
Two Supreme Court justices Jensen (Ralph Cosham) and Rosenberg (Hume Cronyn) are assassinated by the professional assassin "Sam" Khamel (Stanley Tucci). Khamel takes a raft to shore. In the woods, he finds discreetly hidden vehicle keys and drives off. Khamel drives to Washington DC. Khamel, now disguised differently than before, knocks on the door of a hotel room asking for Mr. Sneller. Sneller passes a manila envelope under the door to Khamel who picks it up and then uses a room key to enter the hotel room right next door. Khamel opens the envelope and pulls out a picture of the entire U.S. Supreme Court. Two of the justices in the picture are circled, one of which is Rosenberg. There are FBI agents guarding Rosenberg's house. Inside, Rosenberg lays in a hospital type bed while a nurse sits in a chair next to the bed watching TV. Both men are shot in the head by a gun with a silencer. Khamel, disguised differently again, sneaks out the rear of the house, puts on headphones, and pretends to be on a jog as he runs away. Justice Jensen, the other justice circled in the picture, discreetly enters a gay porn theater and sits down while a movie is playing. There are only a few other people spread out in the theater. Khamel, disguised differently again, enters the theater with a tub of popcorn and sits down in the row behind Jensen. Khamel removes a rope he is wearing as a belt and discreetly strangles Jensen with it killing him. After Jensen is dead, Khamel hides the rope in the popcorn tub. Journalist Gray Grantham had interviewed Rosenberg shortly before her assassination. The next morning, the White House Chief of Staff, Fletcher Coal (Tony Goldwyn) briefs the President (Robert Culp) on the murders of the two justices. FBI Director Denton Voyles (James Sikking) comes with Bob Gminski (William Atherton) from the CIA. The president asks where the breakdown in security occurred since the judges were being guarded by the FBI. The President then ask Gminski if any U.S. agencies could be involved. It is staged to look like the justices were killed by a radical right to life group because they are pro-choice, Tulane University Law School student Darby Shaw (Julia Roberts) suspects the real motive might be different. Darby suggests the authorities should look at what few issues the justices did agree on to find out who did it.
Darby is with Callahan who watches Rosenberg's interview with Gray. Darby says maybe the motive is just about a pending case who's decision could have really big financial implications.
She writes a legal Pelican Brief, and shows it to her law professor, mentor and lover Thomas Callahan (Sam Shepard). He gives a copy to his friend Gavin Verheek (John Heard) who is an attorney for the FBI, specifically Voyles' chief counsel. Coal is in a meeting getting an update about the investigation from the FBI. He's informed that Khamel, a terrorist, arrived on a flight to Paris that left Dulles just ten hours after Jensen was killed. Coal is then given a copy of Darby's brief inside an FBI binder and told Director Voyles wanted him to be aware as it implicates the White House. Coal brings the brief to the president. Callahan is killed by a car bomb. Darby escapes because she would not get into the car with her drunk lover. Darby is in shock when she is approached by a man who identifies himself as Sgt. Rupert (Christopher Murray). He puts her in the front seat of his car and asks for her name. He walks off when he hears a siren approaching. Darby is then approached by another detective who takes her to the hospital. At the hospital, the detective informs Darby that the name given to her by the detective who put her in the car doesn't exist in the police database and the car had fake tags.
Realizing that her brief was accurate, she goes into hiding and reaches out to Verheek for help. Verheek asks Darby where she is staying so he can send agents to protect her, but Darby doesn't trust him and says Callahan is dead because he talked to Verheek and to tell Voyles that. Darby checks into a hotel with her credit card. While leaving her hotel, Darby is chased by a man, Stump (Nicholas Woodeson). She gets away and discreetly checks into a different hotel, this time paying with cash instead of using her credit card. Gminski and other CIA agents spy on Darby as she watches TV in her hotel room from another building. Political reporter Gray Grantham (Denzel Washington) is contacted by an informant who calls himself "Garcia" who claims to have information about the assassinations. But before they can meet, "Garcia" disappears. Darby contacts Grantham and mentions the Pelican brief. She explains what the brief is and how her boyfriend gave it to the FBI and that he's since been murdered. She asks Gray to get a list of all the major donors to the president's last campaign and says she'll be in touch. Grantham discovers the information Darby discloses has validity. Khamel knocks on another hotel room door again asking for Mr. Sneller, and is passed an envelope under the door just like it happened in the beginning of the movie. Khamel opens the envelope and takes out a picture of Darby. Darby finds out that her computer, disks and files are gone from her apartment. She contacts Verheek and arranges to meet him, but he is murdered by Khamel, who then goes to the meeting impersonating Verheek. Before Khamel can kill her, he is shot and killed by an unknown agent. Darby contacts Grantham again and agrees to meet him in New York City. There she gives him the details of her brief. Coal is riding in a limo with Barr (John Finn) who is finishing up reading the Pelican Brief. Barr tells Coal that they've bugged Gray's car phone but haven't been able to put a bug in his place yet. Coal tells Barr that Gray must have seen the brief because he's been calling around to verify certain information. The legal brief speculates that the assassinations were committed on behalf of Victor Mattiece, an oil tycoon who wants to drill for oil on a Louisiana marshland which is a major habitat of an endangered species of pelicans.
The trial judge believed that the environmentalists had proven their case and maintains the current injunction against drilling in place for the case to be appealed. The case will be appealed to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals, and regardless of who wins the appeal, the case will then be appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. The case is likely to reach and be decided at that level in anywhere from 3-5 years. The two slain justices had a history of environmentalism, their only common view, and thus Darby surmised that Mattiece hoped to turn the case in his favor by eliminating the two justices. As a generous donor to the president, Mattiece expects him to appoint justices favoring oil and gas exploitation over environmental issues while the next president may not.
Darby explains that even though Rosenberg and Jensen disagreed on most issues, they were both big on protecting the environment. As the tape finishes up, Gray makes a chart showing Garcia>Law Firm>Mattiece>White House. The president enters his limo after attending Jensen's funeral. Coal is in the limo and tells the president he fears Gray has the brief. Coal tells the president he is working on handling the situation and goes over some other possible options should the brief come out such as appointing environmentally friendly judges to the court so there appears to be no motive. Gray asks her if she is aware of any DC law firms that have done work for Mattiece. She knows of two and names them for him. Gray tells Darby about Garcia and that he probably works for one of those two firms. Gray tells Darby that Garcia could be the confirmation of her brief and he needs her to go to DC with him. They get a list of law school students who clerked at the firm the previous summer they think Garcia probably works at and meet up with the students to see if they can identify Garcia from the picture taken of him by Gray. They luck out when the final student on their list identifies Garcia as CURTIS Morgan (Jake Weber), a lawyer in the oil and gas division of White & Blazevich in Washington.
Darby visits White & Blazevich, pretending to have an appointment with Morgan. She is told that he had been killed, and suspects that this was related to the information he had. She and Grantham visit his widow, who gives them a key to a safe deposit box. As Darby and Gray are leaving, Sneller and Stump are spying on them from a parked car and follow them. Stump is sitting in a car listening to the entire conversation between Gray and Mrs. Morgan over some kind of listening device. Darby visits the bank to retrieve the contents of the box. As Gray goes to start the car, the engine stutters just as it had when Callahan was starting the car right before it blew up. Darby recognizes the sounds and prevents Gray from starting the car, and they both get out of the car and start running which surprises Stump who was watching from his car close by. The unknown man and woman start chasing and shooting at Darby and Gray. Stump starts chasing them in his car, but Stump ends up crashing into the car Darby and Gray got out of causing the car bomb to detonate blowing up Stump's car as well. After barely escaping death by a car bomb, they reach the Washington Herald building, where they review the documents, and a videotape recovered from Morgan's box. The tape confirms Morgan's discovery that Mattiece ordered the assassination of the justices, and the documents confirm the accusations. With this evidence Grantham writes his story. He gives the FBI a chance to comment, and FBI Director Voyles (James B. Sikking) confirms that the Pelican Brief was delivered to the White House. Voyles explains on the record when the FBI received a copy of the Pelican Brief, but that it wasn't taken seriously until after Gavin's murder. Off the record, he reveals that the President ordered the FBI to "back off", that CIA agents were investigating Mattiece, and that one of them killed Khamel to save Darby's life. Darby asks who killed the man next to her she thought was Gavin. Voyles says Rupert, a CIA operative.
The FBI flies Darby to a safe location under the United States Federal Witness Protection Program. The movie ends with Darby at her hideaway, watching Grantham being interviewed on TV, where it is revealed that Mattiece and two of his lawyers have been indicted in federal court, the President's chief of staff has resigned, and the president (who received $4.2 million in contributions from Mattiece) is unlikely to run for reelection. Grantham deflects speculation that Darby is fictional but does agree that she is "almost" too good to be true. Darby smiles.