movieId: 8371
title: The Chronicles of Riddick
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0296572/
ratingValue: 
directors: David Twohy
actors: Vin Diesel, Colm Feore, Thandiwe Newton, Judi Dench, Karl Urban, Alexa Davalos, Linus Roache, Yorick van Wageningen, Nick Chinlund, Keith David

synopsis:
Riddick (Vin Diesel), having remained in hiding for five years after the events of Pitch Black, evades the bounty hunter Toombs (Nick Chinlund).
A crew of bounty hunters led by Toombs arrives at the frozen planet U.V. to hunt down Riddick, a notorious wanted fugitive. Riddick kills Roombs' crew and steals his ship, before heading for the planet called Helion Prime, after Toombs reveals that the incredibly high bounty originated there. Once there, Riddick is reunited with Abu "Imam" Al-Walid (Keith David), the man he rescued in Pitch Black, and is asked about his home world, a now devastated planet called Furya, and if there are any of his people still alive, aside from him. Imam and the others are aware that Helion Prime is likely the next planet to be conquered by the Necromongers, an army of religious fanatics who seek to convert every human life and kill those who refuse. Aereon (Judi Dench), an Air Elemental, believes Riddick is a Furyan, a member of a race of warriors long thought extinct. One night, the Necromongers invades Helion Prime, overwhelming their entire defense forces, and takes control of the capital. In the ensuing battle, Imam is killed defending his family and Riddick heads to the capital building. The next day, the Necromongers, led by the high priest (called The Purifier), coerce the populace into converting, except for Riddick, who in a display of defiance kills the man who killed Imam the night before. Intrigued, and alarmed by a sense of Deja Vu, the Lord Marshal (Colm Feore) leader of the Necromonger faith, orders Riddick be examined in the main Necromonger hall by the Quasi-Dead Telepaths. Lord Mardhal possesses unnatural abilities granted to him after visiting the Underverse, the Necromonger Promised Land. He is the subject of a prophecy that foretells of his death at the hands of a Furyan warrior. It is discovered that Riddick is the last Furyan alive, to which the Lord Marshal immediately orders Riddick's death. Riddick escapes the Necromonger ship and allows himself to be captured by Toombs and his new crew. Riddick quietly gets Toombs to take him to Crematoria, a scorching subterranean and harsh prison moon, where the kid from Pitch Black, Jack (Alexa Davalos), was reported to have been sent. Following Riddick's escape, the Lord Marshal sends a commander named Vaako (Karl Urban) a loyal Necromonger Commander who is tasked with hunting down and killing Riddick. This process made easier by Toombs' ship leaving behind an easily traceable path. During the voyage, Vaako's wife Dame Vaako (Thandiwe Newton), after talking to the Elemental Aereon who acted as a seer for the Lord Marshal 30 years prior, reveals that Furya was devastated by the Lord Marshal, after he was informed that a male child from that world would bring about his downfall, thus revealing his desire to see Riddick killed. On Crematoria, a disagreement between Toombs and the prison warden over the amount Toombs is owed for Riddick results in Toombs and his crew staying there for a day. Word about the Necromongers has reached even the isolated prison guards, who suspect that Toombs stole Riddick from them, and that it will bring them only trouble. A firefight breaks out, killing most of the bounty hunters except for Toombs. On Crematoria, Riddick quickly asserts his position in the prison's populace. In the prison, Riddick meets up with Jack, now renamed Kyra, who resents him for abandoning her. After a few fights, they eventually reconcile. The next day, the guards kill all the mercenaries, except Toombs who drops into the prison area, who take all their money and prepare to leave when they realize the Necromongers are coming for Riddick. Overpowering and locking Toombs' in a cell, Riddick escapes the prison and leads several prisoners across Crematoria's volcanic surface to the hangar to steal Toombs' ship. As the prisoners reach the outside of the hangar, they find that Necromonger ships have also landed. A three-way fight breaks out between the Necromongers, the prisoners, and the hangar guards. In the end, all of the guards and prisoners are killed, Riddick is incapacitated by Vaako, and Kyra is captured. As the deadly sunrise approaches, Vaako leaves Riddick to die and departs. However, following an outburst of energy by Riddick, a trait among Furyans, and the approach of the vicious sunrise (0 to 700 degrees F), Vaako leaves Riddick for dead. Kyra, also thinking Riddick is dead, flees with the Necromongers. However, Riddick is saved by the Purifier (Linus Roache), who informs him that if he stays away from the Necromongers, the Lord Marshal will not hunt him. The Purifier then reveals that he too is Furyan, and that Vaako will likely report Riddick as dead, giving him the element of surprise. The Purifier then commits suicide by walking out of the hanger onto the scorching surface of Crematoria after encouraging Riddick to save Kyra and kill the Lord Marshal. Meanwhile, Vaako has reported Riddick as dead, and for which, has been named as the heir apparent by the Lord Marshal. Riddick flies back to Helion Prime. Flying back to Helion Prime on Toombs's ship, Riddick infiltrates the Necromongers' flagship. Riddick, disguised as a Necromonger in full armor, infiltrates the main Necromonger hall. Dame Vaako finds out and encourages her husband to let Riddick strike first, so as to wound the Lord Marshal, paving the way for Vaako to kill him.
Taking advantage of the Necromonger's culture, Riddick openly challenges Lord Marshal, who taunts him by revealing Kyra has been converted. Riddick fights Lord Marshal, who keeps the upper hand with his supernatural powers. Riddick attacks him, and when it appears that Riddick has been defeated, Kyra stabs the Lord Marshal in the back with a spear. She is then mortally wounded after being tossed onto, and impaled, on spikes. Vaako attempts to strike the wounded Lord Marshal, who evades the blow. Riddick, who in the fight has figured out the Lord Marshal's weakness, ends up killing the Lord Marshal. After Kyra dies in Riddick's arms, and as Riddick mourns, the Necromongers kneel before him, the new Lord Marshal.