movieId: 2006
title: The Mask of Zorro
year: 1998
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120746/
ratingValue: 
directors: Martin Campbell
actors: José María de Tavira, Diego Sieres, Emiliano Guerra, Yolanda Orizaga, Paco Morayta, William Marquez, Stuart Wilson, Tony Amendola, Anthony Hopkins

synopsis:
In 1821, Spain's 300-hundred-year domination of Mexico is about to end. A people's rebellion is being led by General Santa Anna and is spreading all the way to the fertile Northern province of California. People gathered in the streets calling for the death of last Spanish Governor Montero. Montero was under orders to return to Spain but was reluctant to relinquish power without reckoning. Don Diego De La Vega (Anthony Hopkins) fights against Spain in the Mexican War of Independence as Zorro, a mysterious avenger who defends the Mexican peasants and commoners of Las Californias.
Don Rafael Montero, Las Californias' corrupt governor, sets a trap for Zorro at the public execution of three peasants. Zorro stops the execution, and Montero's soldiers are thwarted by two young brothers, Alejandro and Joaquín Murrieta. Zorro fights the remaining soldiers and thanks the brothers by giving Joaquín a medallion. Montero (Stuart Wilson) learns De La Vega's identity (De La Vega was injured in the arm during the rescue of the 3 peasants and Montero confirmed this when he corners De La Vega in his home). Arresting De La Vega in his home and in the ensuing sword fight, his beloved wife Esperanza (Julieta Rosen) is accidentally killed by one of Montero's soldiers. Montero imprisons De La Vega and takes his infant daughter, Elena, as his own and leaves for Spain. Montero believed that he was to marry Esperanza, but De La Vega swooped her away, and this made Montero believe that Elena should rightly belong to her and not Montero. Before leaving Montero had granted titles to the Spanish lands, including those in California to loyal local Dons led by Don Luiz (Tony Amendola). Montero knew that Santa Anna is a practical man and would respect the property rights of locals who pay their taxes on time. In 1841, Alejandro and Joaquin (Victor Rivers) are bandits, running a scam to collect the bounty on their heads and steal a strongbox. They, however, fail and are caught by Captain Harrison Love, Montero's new American right-hand man. Alejandro escapes, while Joaquín shoots himself to avoid execution by Captain Love. Montero returns from exile in Spain with Elena (Catherine Zeta Jones), who has grown into a beautiful woman, by his side. He is planning to turn California into an independent republic. However, his reappearance also awakens a long-dormant De La Vega, who has spent two decades living in anonymity during his imprisonment. He escapes from prison, and as he plans his revenge on Montero, De La Vega encounters a thief, Alejandro Murrieta (Antonio Banderas), who - along with his brother - greatly admired Zorro as a child and even had a small hand in the hero's last great exploit. De La Vega recognizes the medallion he gave his brother. After a brief period of deliberation, De La Vega decides to take Alejandro as his protege in order for them to take revenge on their respective enemies, Montero and Love.
Inspired by the wish for revenge upon Captain Harrison Love (Matt Letscher), his brother's killer and Montero's right-hand man, he endures the tough training regimen brilliantly in Zorro's secret lair underneath the ruins of his family estate. While still being trained, Alejandro steals a black stallion resembling Tornado, Zorro's long deceased horse, and leaves Zorro's mark at the scene. De La Vega scolds him claiming that Zorro was a servant of the people, not a thief or adventurer. He challenges Alejandro to gain Montero's trust and pose as Don Alejandro Del Castillo Y García, a visiting nobleman, with De La Vega posing as his servant, Bernardo. Both attend a party at Montero's hacienda, where he gains Elena's admiration and titillation and enough of Montero's trust to be invited to a secret meeting. There, Montero hints at a plan to retake California for the Dons by buying it from General Santa Anna, who needs money to fund his upcoming war with the United States. Alejandro and the Dons are taken to a secret gold mine known as "El Dorado", where peasants and criminals are used for slave labor. The plan is to buy California from Santa Anna using gold mined from Santa Anna's own land. Meanwhile, De La Vega uses this opportunity to become closer to Elena. Still posing as Bernardo, he learns that Montero raised her telling her that her mother died in childbirth. De La Vega sends Alejandro, as Zorro, to steal the map leading to the gold mine. Zorro duels Montero, Love, and their guards at the hacienda. When Alejandro escapes, Elena attempts to retrieve Montero's map, but he uses his sword to strip off her clothing and seduces her, leading to a passionate kiss before he flees. Terrified of Santa Anna's retribution if he discovers that he is being paid with his own gold, Montero decides to destroy the mine, along with all its workers, to better hide all evidence. De La Vega tells Alejandro to release the workers on his own so that he can reclaim Elena. Alejandro sets off, feeling betrayed by Diego's vendetta. De La Vega corners Montero at his hacienda and reveals his identity but is captured. As he is taken away, Elena, inspired by a chance encounter with a woman who had been her nanny at the market, asks Montero the name of the flower that her mother had hung about her crib. When it is De La Vega who tells Elena its name, she realizes he is her father. She releases De La Vega from his cell and they proceed to the mine, which Zorro has begun to infiltrate. De La Vega stops Montero from shooting Zorro and the two duel. Meanwhile Zorro is confronted by Love and they duel. In the end, Alejandro avenges his brother by impaling Love with his own sword, and De La Vega sends Montero to his death by dragging him off a cliff behind a gold laden cart which crushes Love. Elena and Alejandro free the workers before the explosives go off, where they attend to the mortally wounded De La Vega. He makes peace with Alejandro before dying, passing the mantle of Zorro to him, and gives his blessings for Alejandro's and Elena's prospective marriage. They re-build the De La Vega hacienda and have a son named Joaquin, honoring Alejandro's brother.