movieId: 5995
title: The Pianist
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0253474/
ratingValue: 
directors: Roman Polanski
actors: Adrien Brody, Emilia Fox, Michal Zebrowski, Ed Stoppard, Maureen Lipman, Frank Finlay, Jessica Kate Meyer, Julia Rayner, Wanja Mues, Richard Ridings

synopsis:
In September 1939, Wladyslaw Szpilman / Wladek (Adrian Brody), a Polish-Hebrew pianist, plays on radio in Warsaw when the station is bombed during Nazi Germany's invasion of Poland at the outbreak of World War II. The Polish Army has been defeated in three weeks by the German Army and Szpilman's radio station is bombed while he plays live on the air. While evacuating the building he finds a friend of his who introduces him to his sister, Dorota. Szpilman is immediately attracted to her. After escaping, Szpilman and his family prepare to leave the city when they learn that Britain and France have declared war on Germany. Relieved at the news, Szpilman and his family choose to stay in the city and celebrate. Their celebrations are short-lived as Warsaw becomes part of the Nazi-controlled General Government.
But Germany defeats Poland quickly and its troops enter Warsaw, where life for Hebrews deteriorates as the Nazi authorities prevent them from working or owning businesses and force them to wear blue Star of David armbands.
Wladek meets with Dorota, who accompanies him around Warsaw to learn of the injustice Hebrew people have to face under the new Nazi regime. Businesses that were once friendly to them now won't allow their patronage. Wladek's father is harshly forbidden to walk on the sidewalk in the city by two German officers; when he begins to protest, one of the officers hits him in the face.
Szpilman and his family sell many of their material belongings, including his piano, in order to make enough Zlotys to survive. By November 1940, Szpilman and his family have been forced from their home into the overcrowded Warsaw Ghetto where conditions only get worse. They struggle under the ghetto's squalid conditions, with disease and starvation rampant. Szpilman finds work by performing in a cafe frequented by upper-class Hebrews, who smuggle in forbidden goods in order to live comfortably. On one occasion, he sees a young boy being savagely beaten by a guard while trying to crawl through a gap in the ghetto wall. The boy is dead by the time Szpilman can pull him through.
People starve, the guards are brutal, and corpses are left in the streets. On one occasion, the Szpilmans witness the SS kill an entire family during a Lapanka (raid) in an apartment across the street. The eldest man is unable to stand when ordered because he is confined to a wheelchair and the SS officers throw him over the balcony to his death. The other family members are gunned down in the street and run over by the SS truck if they survived. The aged father must apply for working papers through a friend of Wladek's, so that he can take a job in a German clothier.
On 16 August 1942 the family are deported to Treblinka extermination camp. Henryk and Halina are selected and taken away and the rest of the family is sent to the Umschlagplatz to wait for transport. The father uses the family's last 20 zlotys to buy a piece of candy from a boy. Each family member eats a tiny morsel of candy, their last meal together. At the Umschlagplatz, Szpilman is about to board the train when a friend from the Hebrew Ghetto Police separates him away from his family and allows him to escape. Szpilman is unable to save the rest of his family, and they are sent away to the camps. Szpilman becomes a slave laborer and learns of a coming Hebrew revolt. He hides for a few days in the cafe he played piano in with his old boss there. He later blends in with the ten percent or so of the Hebrews that the Nazis kept alive in the ghetto to use for slave labor, tearing down the brick walls separating the ghetto and rebuilding apartment houses for new, non-Hebrew residents. He helps by smuggling weapons into the ghetto, narrowly avoiding a suspicious guard. After this close call, he decides he must escape and take his chances in the larger city. He then manages to escape and goes into hiding with help from non-Hebrew friend Andrzej Bogucki (Ronan Vibert) and his wife Janina (Ruth Platt). They take Wladyslaw to his caretaker Gebczynski (a man with the Polish resistance), who hides him for one night. The next day Gebczynski takes him to a vacant apartment near the ghetto wall, where he can live indefinitely on smuggled food. He must be silent however, since several non-Hebrews also live in the building and believe the apartment is empty. In April 1943 Szpilman observes from his window the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising he aided and its ultimate failure.
Later, Gebczynski wants to move Wladek as the Nazis have found the weapons of the Polish resistance, forcing Gebczynski to be on the run also. Gebczynski says it's only a matter of time before the Nazis find the apartment Wladek is hiding in. Wladek decides to stay put, feeling safer where he is. His friend gives him an address to go to in case of an emergency, and leaves, gravely warning Wladek not to be caught alive by the Nazis. Wladyslaw remains in the apartment a few more months until he has an accident, breaking some dishes. The noise has blown his cover, and he has to scurry out of the building, being chased by an angry German woman who suspects him of being Hebrew. Wladek goes to the emergency address he was given and meets his old friend Dorota (Emilia Fox), whose husband provides him with another hiding place in the middle of the German quarter. He is shown into a room with a piano yet is compelled to keep quiet. His new caretaker, Szalas, is very slack about smuggling in food, and Wladyslaw once more faces starvation, while beginning to suffer from jaundice. Dorota and her husband visit Szpilman for the last time, providing him with a doctor to treat his illness. They report that Szalas had been collecting money from generous and unwitting donors and had pocketed it all, leaving Wladek to die in isolation. In August 1944, the Polish resistance attack a German building across the street from Szpilman's hideout during the Warsaw Uprising. The Poles tried to retake control of their city. Soon the Germans start attacking the building and he has to flee. The Poles had expected the advancing Soviet Red Army to help them, but the Russians did not come, instead allowing the Germans to put down the revolt, and drive the entire remaining population of Warsaw out of the city. A tank shells his apartment, forcing him to escape and hide elsewhere. The Home Army attacks the Schutzpolizei Hospital across the street from the apartment, while Szpilman's apartment building is destroyed in the fighting, forcing him to flee and hide in the now abandoned hospital. The Germans had by then decided to burn Warsaw to ashes, so Wladyslaw flees the hospital and jumps back over the wall into the ghetto, now an abandoned, desolate wasteland of bricks and rubble.
Over the course of the next months, the city is destroyed and abandoned, leaving Szpilman alone to search desperately for shelter and supplies among the ruins. Szpilman wanders through the city's ruins. He eventually makes his way to an abandoned home where he finds a can of pickles. While trying to open it he is discovered by the Wehrmacht officer Wilm Hosenfeld (Thomas Kretschmann), who learns that Szpilman is a pianist and asks him to play on a grand piano in the house. The decrepit Szpilman plays Chopin's Ballade in G minor, which moves Hosenfeld enough to allow Szpilman to hide in the attic of the empty house where the German Captain regularly brings him food. In January 1945, the Germans are forced to retreat due to the advance of the Red Army. Hosenfeld meets Szpilman for the last time and promises he will listen to him on Polish Radio after the war. He gives Szpilman his greatcoat to keep warm and leaves. However, this has almost fatal consequences for Szpilman when he is mistaken for a German officer and shot at by Polish troops liberating Warsaw, who then apprehend and save him. In Spring 1945, former inmates of a Nazi concentration camp pass a Soviet prisoner-of-war camp holding captured German soldiers and verbally abuse them. Hosenfeld, among those captured, overhears a released inmate lament over his former career as a violinist. He asks the violinist if he knows Szpilman, which the violinist confirms. Hosenfeld wishes for Szpilman to return the favor and help release him. Sometime later, the violinist is able to bring Szpilman back to the site, but they find it has been long abandoned. Later, Szpilman performs Chopin's Grand Polonaise Brillante to a large and prestigious audience. An epilogue states that Szpilman died at the age of 88 in the year 2000, while Hosenfeld died in Soviet captivity in 1952, seven long years after the war had officially ended.