movieId: 1024
title: The Three Caballeros
year: 1944
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0038166/
ratingValue: 
directors: Norman Ferguson, Clyde Geronimi, Jack Kinney, Bill Roberts, Harold Young
actors: Aurora Miranda, Carmen Molina, Dora Luz, Sterling Holloway, Clarence Nash, Joaquin Garay, José Oliveira, Frank Graham, Fred Shields

synopsis:
The film, celebrating Donald Duck's 10th anniversary, consists of seven segments, each connected by a common theme. A large box arrives for Donald on his birthday, three gifts inside from his friends in Latin America. He unwraps one at a time, and each takes him on an adventure. The first is a movie projector with a film about the birds of South American: Donald watches two cartoons, one tells of a penguin Pablo who longs to live on a tropical isle (as he finds it very cold in Antarctica). This segment is narrated by Sterling Holloway, reproducing images of the penguins of in Antarctica. Pablo makes several attempts to leave Antarctica, but could never get far enough from his stove, without freezing over. So, finally he makes a boat from the glacier he lives on and takes his stove with him.
Pablo makes a journey halfway around the navigating the long coast of Chile (including the Juan Fernández Islands and Vina Del Mar), passing by Lima (the capital of Peru) and Quito (the capital of Ecuador) before landing on the Galápagos Islands only to want to go back to his friends & family in Antarctica. The next segment details some of the odd birds of Latin America. During this part of the documentary, he learns about the Aracuan Bird, who received his name because of his eccentric song. The other video is about a young gaucho boy who goes on his first hunt alone to look for condor birds in the mountains & finds a flying donkey. He thinks he can make a lot of money by racing the donkey at the spring festival. He trains the donkey & enters the race. He ties the wings at first to escape inspection but unleashes them in the middle of the race & comfortably wins it. But the crowd sees the wings & accuses the gaucho of cheating. The gaucho flies away on the donkey & is never seen again. The second gift is a pop-up book about Brazil. Inside is Jose Carioca a native of Brazil, who takes Donald to Brazil's Bahia for a mix of animation and live action. Jose shrinks them both down so that they can enter the book. Bahia is a beautiful country with breathtaking natural views.
The two cartoon birds sing and dance with natives. They travel the train to get to Bahia & meet several natives like the Ya-Ya girls who sell cookies. Donald falls in love with the Ya-Ya girl when she dances & entertains the whole town. He gives her flowers & is rewarded with a kiss. 2 local men enact a cock fight over the Ya-Ya girl. Upon returning, Donald realizes that he is too small to open his third present. Jose shows Donald how to use "black magic" to return himself to the proper size. After opening the present, he meets Panchito, a native of Mexico. The trio take the name "The Three Caballeros" and have a short celebration. The third gift is a pinata. A ride on a magic serape takes the three amigos singing and dancing across Mexico. Ole!. Panchito gives Jose & Donald a sombrero & takes them on a ride of Mexico. Panchito tells them of the Mexican Christmas tradition where in each of the 9 days before Christmas, children carry the images of Mary & Joseph from house to house, symbolizing their journey from Jerusalem to Bethlehem.
This is the story of a group of Mexican children who celebrated Christmas by re-enacting the journey of Mary, the mother of Jesus and Saint Joseph searching for room at the inn. "Posada" meant "inn", or "shelter", and their parents told them "no Posada" at each house until they came to one where they were offered shelter in a stable. This leads to festivities including the breaking of the Pinata, which in turn leads to Donald Duck trying to break his own Pinata as well. It was foretold hundreds of years ago to build a city in Mexico where they find an eagle a serpent. When they found that eagle, it was sitting in a tree, on a rock, in the middle of a lake. That lake was then drained to become what is today Mexico City. On a magic carpet they visit the Mexican fishing communities, their folk dances. They visit Veracruz on the Gulf of Mexico & dance with the natives. Then visit the Acapulco beach, the Riviera of Mexico, The night life of Mexico City.
Later Donald pines for more women, tries to pursue everyone he sees and gain return affections, but once more he fails every time and ends up kissing José while blindfolded. The skies of Mexico City result in Donald falling in love with singer Dora Luz. The lyrics in the song itself play parts in the scenarios as well. Then several imagined kisses lead to Donald going into the "Love is a drug" scene. Donald constantly envisions sugar rush colors, flowers, and Panchito and José popping in at the worst moments, making chaos. The scene changes after Donald manages to dance with Carmen Molina from the state of Oaxaca, from the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. The two dance and sing the song "La Zandunga". Carmen begins by singing the song, with Donald "quacking" out the rest of the chorus with her. The "drunkenness" slows down for a second after Donald multiplies himself while dancing, but speeds up again when Carmen reappears dressed in a Charro's outfit and uses a horsewhip as a conductor's baton to make cacti appear in many different forms while dancing to "Jesusita En Chihuahua", a trademark song of the Mexican Revolution. This scene is notable for providing the masterful combination of live-action and cartoon animation, as well as animation among the cacti. The scene is interrupted when Panchito and José suddenly spice things up for the finale of the film, and Donald ends up battling the same toy bull with wheels on its legs the day before from earlier. The catch is that it is now loaded with fireworks and other explosives, following with a fireworks finale with the words "The End" exploding from the fireworks first in Spanish (Fin), in the colors of the flag of Mexico, then the second in Portuguese (Fim), in the colors of the flag of Brazil, and finally in English, in the colors of the flag of the United States (The End). Throughout the film, the Aracuan Bird appears at random moments. He usually taunts everyone with his madcap antics, sometimes stealing Jose's cigar and trying to make Jose jealous. His most famous gag is when he re-routes a train that Donald and José are riding on by drawing new tracks, causing the train to disassemble.