movieId: 1127
title: The Abyss
year: 1989
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0096754/
ratingValue: 
directors: James Cameron
actors: Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Michael Biehn, Leo Burmester, Todd Graff, John Bedford Lloyd, J.C. Quinn, Kimberly Scott, Captain Kidd Brewer Jr., George Robert Klek

synopsis:
The U.S. Ohio-class submarine U.S.S. Montana, a nuclear missile submarine with 156 men aboard it, is operating deep in the Cayman Trough, a 2½ mile deep drop-off about 80 miles away from Cuba. The Montana has an encounter with an unidentified submerged object that moves at high speed, making detection of it difficult. Close contact with the strange object disables power to the Montana. Power is restored after a few moments, but the Montana has drifted too close to the underwater canyon wall, skimming it and throwing the Montana off its trajectory. An officer is able to launch the Montana's emergency locator beacon before the Montana collides head-on with another rock wall. Its bow ruptures, and it floods, sinking even further. The U.S. Navy brass believes that Soviet ships might try to salvage the Montana, and take the nuclear warheads. With Hurricane Fred moving toward the area, the U.S. Navy decides that the quickest way to mount a rescue and protect the nuclear warheads is for a Navy SEAL team to be inserted onto a privately owned experimental underwater oil drilling submersible called DeepCore, which they'll use as their base of operations. Virgil "Bud" Brigman (Ed Harris) is the foreman in DeepCore, whose crew works for Benthic Petroleum, which funds DeepCore, its crew's salaries, and operations. DeepCore maintains comms with the surface via a long umbilical cable attached to a ship called the Benthic Explorer. Right now, Bud and his crew are 1,700 feet under the water, 22 miles away from the Cayman Trough, working in DeepCore, which was designed by Bud's wife Lindsey Brigman (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio), who is its chief engineer. Among Bud's crew are Catfish "Cat" DeVries (Leo Burmester), a worker on the rig and a Marine Corps Vietnam veteran. Alan "Hippy" Carnes (Todd Graff) is a conspiracy theorist who usually carries a pet rat, named Beany, on his shoulder. Lisa "One Night" Standing (Kimberly Scott) is an expert operator of the rig's submersibles. Rounding out the crew are Jammer Willis (John Bedford Lloyd), Arliss "Sonny" Dawson (J. C. Quinn), Lew "Bird Dog" Finler (Captain Kidd Brewer Jr), Dwight Perry (Richard Warlock), Tommy Ray Dietz (Robert Searle), and Lupton McWhirter (Mike DeLuna). Benthic Explorer's crew includes Drilling Operations Supervisor Leland McBride (Jimmie Ray Weeks) and Benthic Explorer Crew Chief Bendix (Chris Elliott). Bud and his crew receive news that the Montana has crashed at the top of the Cayman Trough. Benthic Petroleum has authorized the use of DeepCore for a rescue operation to check for survivors on the Montana. The code name is Operation Salvo. Benthic has promised DeepCore's crew substantial bonus pay for cooperating. The reason why the navy can't send divers to the Montana is because by the time they get their rescue submersible to the Montana, Hurricane Fred would be right on them, but Bud can get DeepCore in under the storm, and be on-site in fifteen hours. Bud reluctantly agrees that he and his team will go to the site. After DeepCore is moved, Lindsey arrives on the Benthic Explorer, via helicopter. Lindsey has a forceful, A-type personality, and not many people on the Benthic Explorer, or in DeepCore, like her. Lindsey and Bud have been thinking about getting a divorce. Lindsey, who is not happy about a military unit commandeering DeepCore, insists on going along with the SEAL team. Lindsey argues with Benthic Petroleum representative Gerard Kirkhill (Ken Jenkins). Navy SEAL Lieutenant Hiram Coffey (Michael Biehn) and his three men -- Monk (Adam Nelson), Schoenick (Christopher Murphy), and Wilhite (George Robert Klek) -- are set to transport down to DeepCore. Lindsey insists on going to DeepCore with the SEAL team. Lindsey and the SEAL team descend from Benthic Explorer down to DeepCore with a small submersible. Lindsey is to oversee the salvage operation operation personally, and Bud is not happy about that. The Montana lies at 2,000 feet deep, 300 meters away from DeepCore. DeepCore rests at the edge of a precipice, part of the Cayman Trough, about 2½ miles in depth at their location. After eight hours in a compression chamber, Lindsey and the SEAL team emerge; what no one notices, however, is that Lt. Coffey is developing High Pressure Nervous Syndrome (HPNS), also known as pressure-induced psychosis, and he has a slight hand tremor. He steadies his hand, and joins the rest of the crew. Lindsey and Bud promptly begin arguing with each other. Bud becomes furious and throws his wedding band into a chemical toilet. He relents after a few moments, and fishes it out, staining his hand blue with the toilet's sanitation fluid. The rig and SEAL teams prepare to investigate the submarine wreck. Monk, who is a medic, shows Hippy and Cat a high-tech underwater breathing system which, instead of air, uses an oxygenated fluid called 3M fluorocarbon emulsion FX-80. The system allows its wearer to survive at extreme ocean depths without succumbing to the intense water pressure. Lt. Coffey leads the entire operation, issuing orders and angrily reprimanding the DeepCore crew when they begin joking with each other, and the DeepCore crew develops a dislike for Lt. Coffey. The dive to the submarine begins, and they find that there are no survivors. Lindsey, piloting one of the rig's three mini-subs, experiences the same type of power loss that the Montana did. It also affects the team's diving lights. It leads to Lindsey seeing a strange light circling her mini-sub. As they explore the interior of the Montana, Jammer, searching a compartment, encounters a strange, glowing being. He panics, trying to escape the compartment, and he accidentally slams his air tank on the door frame, and damages a valve on the tank. Jammer's breathing mixture becomes unstable, and he's getting too much oxygen. Jammer convulses heavily, until his crewmates stabilize him. Back aboard the rig, Monk, who is the SEAL team's medic, says that Jammer is in a coma, and he doesn't know how long it'll last. Lindsey believes that Jammer saw something that scared him and caused him to panic, but she can't convince Bud that there's something out there. As the storm intensifies, Lt. Coffey and his team communicate with their commanding officer, DeMarco (J. Kenneth Campbell), using the closed-circuit video system that Bud and his crew use to communicate with the Benthic Explorer. DeMarco tells Lt. Coffey that two Russian attack subs were tracked to within 50 miles of the Montana's location. DeMarco orders Lt. Coffey, Schoenick, Monk, and Wilhite to get one of the nuclear warheads from the Montana, arm it, and wait for further instructions, because DeMarco does not want the payload and technology of the Montana to fall into enemy hands. The Montana contains contains 24 trident missiles, each with 8 nuclear warheads of 50 kilotons each -- even more powerful than the nuclear bomb that was dropped on Hiroshima, Japan in World War II. There is a news report where reporter Bill Tyler (William Wisher Jr.) states that Russian attack subs have been found within 50 miles of DeepCore. With Cuba only 80 miles away, a massive buildup of U.S. ships and aircraft in the area has drawn official protest from Havana and Moscow. Russian and Cuban trawlers, possibly surveillance vessels, have been circling the area. Hurricane Fred has made it necessary to disconnect DeepCore from the umbilical line that connects it to Benthic Explorer. Before that can happen, Lt. Coffey and the SEALs take the rig's largest mini-sub, Flatbed, without authorization, and they go to the site. Flatbed is the only one of DeepCore's mini-subs that's capable of disconnecting the umbilical line. On Benthic Explorer, Demarco is approached by McBride. With the wind speed rising, McBride, not happy with DeMarco, says "We need to get unhooked and get out of here, now!" DeMarco says "Alright. Do it, then." McBride says "No problem, except your boys went sight-seeing with Flatbed. My people need Flatbed to get unhooked at their end." DeMarco, not caring much about it, says "Back in two hours." McBride shoots back, "Two hours?! We're gonna get the shit kicked out of us by our pal Fred in two hours!" Using Flatbed's large, mechanized arm, Lt. Coffee and his men are able to open a launch door of the Montana, and extract one of the Tridents. Upon their return, the SEALs remove the warhead, and turn Flatbed over to One Night, who takes it out in an attempt to disconnect the umbilical line. By that time, the Explorer is in the middle of the hurricane, and being tossed about violently by powerful winds and unstable water generated by the storm. The ship's motion makes it impossible for One Night to disconnect the cable. The Benthic Explorer loses its thrusters, and swings out of position, and it begins to drag DeepCore along the bottom toward the Cayman Trough. The stress of the cable causes the derrick crane that the umbilical line is fed from to break off of the Benthic Explorer, momentarily stopping DeepCore's slide towards the trench. However, the heavy crane sinks toward DeepCore, and Bud gives the order to hang on to something. The crane lands on the bottom, around 50 feet away from DeepCore. The crew is relieved that the crane didn't hit the rig, however, it rolls into the trough, and the rig is violently yanked towards the trough, causing flooding and damaging its power systems. The flooding kills Wilhite, Lew Finler, Tommy Ray Dietz, Dwight Perry, and Lupton McWhirter. DeepCore is not pulled into the trench, stopping just a few feet short of the edge of the drop-off. Lt. Coffey tells Bud that he had no choice but to go to the Montana and get the warhead, because he was under orders. Tensions mount as DeepCore has lost contact with the surface, and anger of the crew toward the SEALs intensifies over the deaths of their friends and co-workers. Alone and cut off from the surface, Bud and his crew are helpless spectators to a world careening towards war and annihilation, and Lt. Coffey is becoming more and more unstable by the minute because of HPNS. The crew has no choice but to wait out the storm while they try to restore communications so they can be rescued. Because of the umbilical line disaster, DeepCore has about 12 hours of oxygen left, but there are some storage tanks of oxygen outboard on the wrecked module. Lindsey decides to go outside of DeepCore to tie onto the tanks, and while Lindsey is doing the dive, she encounters two of the strange lights -- one little one, and one big one. As they zip out of sight and into the trench, Lindsey is able to get a few pictures. After she's back inside of DeepCore, Lindsey shows the others the pictures. The crew is humorously skeptical, but they mostly believe the photo evidence she got of the vehicles luminescent characteristics. Lindsey and Hippy call the beings NTIs -- Non-Terrestrial Intelligence. Lindsey suggests that they were both machines, but alive. Bud takes Lindsey aside, thinking that she may be having hallucinations, but she assures him that she isn't, nor is she suffering from HPNS. Lt. Coffey is already experiencing strong paranoia because of the HPNS -- HPNS is affecting his judgment, and making him more and more paranoid. As a result, Lt. Coffey believes that the NTIs are enemies, possibly Russian. Hippy later uses a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) called "Little Geek" to check on some things outside of DeepCore, and when Hippy sends Little Geek to the window of the room that Lt. Coffey and Schoenick are in, Hippy sees them preparing the warhead. Hippy uses Little Geek to get it on video. Hippy shows the video to Bud. Lindsey overhears their conversation and becomes infuriated, angrily confronting Lt. Coffey and Schoenick, and uncovering the warhead. When Schoenick assaults Lindsey, Bud comes to the rescue. Bud tells Lindsey that Lt. Coffey has HPNS. Bud explains to her that Lt. Coffey is operating on his own, cut off from the chain of command. Lindsey later has Hippy program his larger ROV, "Big Geek," to go to the bottom of the trough and take pictures, but he doesn't send Big Geek out yet. That night, after they go to sleep, an NTI gets inside the submersible and wakes everyone up, but it acts like it's friendly, like it's trying to communicate with the crew. It's a tentacle that appears to be made entirely of water, but it can move like a snake. Lindsey is the most curious about it, and it morphs into the faces of both Lindsey and Bud, in an apparent attempt to communicate. Lindsey touches it, and confirms that it's made of sea water. It extends itself and finds Lt. Coffey's chamber, and is curious about the warhead. Lt. Coffey finds the tentacle's origin in Moon Pool, the part of DeepCore where the crew begins dives and launches mini-subs. Lt. Coffey panics and closes one of the hatches, cutting it off, prompting it to hiss at him and retreat, adding to the fear and paranoia that he's already experiencing. Lindsey theorizes that the NTIs have the ability to control water at a molecular level, shaping it to whatever form they wish. Lt. Coffey thinks the NTI went straight for the warhead, and he treats the incident as a preemptive attack. Since communications to the surface are still down, Lt. Coffey makes a fateful decision to strap the warhead to Big Geek, and make preparations to send it down to the bottom of the trench, where the NTIs appear to be coming from. When Hippy sees Lt. Coffey attaching the warhead to Big Geek, Lt. Coffey grabs Hippy, and locks Hippy, Bud, One Night, Cat, Sonny, and Lindsey in the mess hall. Lt. Coffey leaves Schoenick guarding the door to keep them from escaping. Lindsey tries to reason with Schoenick through the door, when it suddenly opens and Jammer appears, having come out of his coma, and taken Schoenick down. Monk decides to help the crew. Lt. Coffee has jammed the door to the rig's sub bay, and he waits until it's time to launch Big Geek. Due to the damage caused to the rig, there is only one way past the door -- Bud and Cat volunteer to leave via an access hatch, and swim to another hatch in freezing cold water. But that hatch is locked, and they're unable to open it. Leaving Cat behind in the air pocket at the hatch, Bud swims to Moon Pool. He slowly gets out of the water, and tries to sneak up on Lt. Coffey, intent on hitting him with a pipe, or disarm him. Bud decides to grab the gun that Lt. Coffey had tucked into his belt. Lt. Coffey spots Bud, and tries to shoot him, but the gun is empty: Monk had previously unloaded the gun while Lt. Coffey was distracted with taking the crew hostage. Bud fights Lt. Coffey hand-to-hand, while a worried Lindsey watches on a monitor, and Bud is quickly overpowered. Suddenly, Catfish steps in, and slams his fist into Lt. Coffey's face, knocking Lt. Coffee down, and causing him to roll backwards. Lt. Coffey retreats to Flatbed, and escapes. Bud and Lindsey intervene; Bud dons a diving suit, and chases after Lt. Coffey, finally tying Big Geek to a railing on the rig. Bud is picked up by Lindsey, who is piloting Cab One, one of DeepCore's smaller mini subs. Lt. Coffey manages to release the warhead into the trough. In a furious chase, Lt. Coffey tries to pound Cab One, but Lindsey uses Cab One to damage Flatbed so much that Flatbed, which ends up hanging off the precipice, shuts down and falls into the trough. When Flatbed gets deep enough, the pressure causes it to implode, killing Lt. Coffey. Cab One is inoperable, and it's taking on water. Bud is wearing the only diving suit that's in Cab One. Lindsey comes up with an idea for them to get back to DeepCore. Lindsey knows that the water is just a couple of degrees above freezing, so she convinces Bud to let her breath water into her lungs and temporarily drown, because with the water temperature low enough, she can enter deep hypothermia, and be revived, because, via the mammalian diving reflex, her body won't completely stop working. When Lindsey goes limp, Bud becomes frantic. Bud, wearing the diving suit, swims her back to DeepCore as fast as he possible can. A very tense situation develops while Lindsey's comrades, now fond of the friendlier person that she's becoming, try to resuscitate her. One Night, who is trained, uses a defibrillator on Lindsey, and Bud and the crew administer CPR. When that fails, Bud frantically begins to shake and even slap Lindsey, while yelling for her to fight, saying that she's never backed away from anything before in her life. Lindsey finally sucks in a deep breath, and starts coughing up water, much to the relief of the entire crew. In her last moments of unconsciousness, the water in moon pool glows, seemingly from the NTIs, who might've had a hand in reviving her. Now, what the crew has to do is find a way to get to the warhead and disarm it. To help with that job, Monk still has the 3M fluorocarbon emulsion FX-80 liquid oxygen. Bud is the strongest and most qualified diver among the crew, but Lindsey is nervous about him doing it. Bud dons an experimental diving suit, which will be filled with the oxygenated fluid. Bud will be able to descend to incredible depths without injury, as his body will not be crushed by the pressure, because he'll have the liquid oxygen in his lungs, rather than air. Bud will only be able to communicate through a keypad on the suit. When the suit is filled, Bud convulses some, but Monk assures him that his body will remember that he breathed oxygenated liquid for 9 months before he was born. The convulsions stop, and Bud feels his body being oxygenated. Bud begins his dive, assisted by Lindsey's voice to keep him coherent against the effects of the mounting pressure. The drop to the bottom takes a significant amount of time. The pressure does affect Bud a little, but Lindsey helps him regain control by talking to him about their lives. It takes 30 minutes for Bud to get to the warhead from DeepCore. Bud touches down, and with Monk's instructions, Bud disarms the bomb after a few tense moments where his glow stick makes it impossible to determine the color of the wire that he has to cut. Bud cuts the proper wire, disarming the bomb. However, when he checks the gauge for the remainder of his breathing liquid, he finds that he has only 5 minutes of oxygen left. In tears, Lindsey tells Bud to drop his weights, and start back, hoping that he can breathe shallowly enough to make it. Bud tells her, via the keypad, that he always knew it was "a one-way trip", but that he had to go to save both the platform crew and the NTIs. He transmits a final message, saying that he loves her, and she tells him how much she loves him. As Bud waits for death, an NTI approaches Bud, takes his hand, and guides him to their ship -- an immense, glowing city on the floor of the trough. Inside the city, the NTIs create an atmospheric pocket for Bud, allowing him to removes his helmet, upchuck the oxygenated liquid, and breathe normally. After Bud greets them, the NTIs engage in silent communication with him. They show Bud several television clips that they have stored, highlighting humanity's destructive behavior, silently explaining that they have left humans alone, but they believe that humans are too self-destructive, and too destructive toward each other. They show Bud a few current newscasts of the tense conflict the salvage operation has created in the world, which seems on the brink of war. They show Bud images of an incredible phenomenon along continental coasts on the surface. The NTIs are using their ability to control water to form 1000-foot high tsunamis off the coasts of every continent on Earth, threatening to destroy humanity, because they believe that humanity is too destructive to survive. Bud asks the NTIs what right they have to judge the human race. He is shown historical clips of Hitler, war, and genocide. However, because the the NTIs had intercepted Bud's transmission "LOVE YOU WIFE," they decide to withdraw the tsunamis, realizing that there are humans who do possess compassion. By the next morning, Hurricane Frederick has passed, and everyone is saddened by the loss of Bud. Benthic Explorer finally makes contact with DeepCore -- then suddenly, they pick up a typed message from Bud. Bud explains that the NTIs, who are indeed friendly, told him that it disturbs the NTIs that people are hurting each other, and their wish is for people to treat each other with respect, and not hurt each other. DeepCore's crew understands that, and so does the crew of Benthic Explorer, but DeMarco, not so much. Bud says that he and his new friends have a surprise, and for everyone to brace themselves -- the NTIs are raising their city to the surface of the sea. DeepCore vibrates, and lights from the trench bring the arrival of the alien city. The NTIs raise their entire city from the chasm, but it's so massive that it lifts most of the naval fleet patrolling the area above the water, including the Benthic Explorer. DeepCore is also lifted above the surface. The crew exits DeepCore, surprised that they're not suffering from decompression sickness. Hippy concludes that the NTIs had somehow prevented them from having any adverse effects from not decompressing. Lindsey agrees. Bud emerges from the NTI city, bring smiles to the faces of the crew. Lindsey runs to him. They greet each other as Mrs. and Mr. Brigman, and they kiss.