movieId: 4585
title: The Dream Team
year: 1989
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0097235/
ratingValue: 
directors: Howard Zieff
actors: Michael Keaton, Christopher Lloyd, Peter Boyle, Stephen Furst, Dennis Boutsikaris, Lorraine Bracco, Milo O'Shea, Philip Bosco, James Remar, Jack Gilpin

synopsis:
Dr. Jeff Weitzman is a psychologist working in a sanitarium in New Jersey. His primary patients are Billy, Henry, Jack and Albert. Billy has the most mental capacity of the group and is their de facto leader, though he is a pathological liar with violent tendencies. Henry suffers from OCD and has deluded himself into thinking he is one of the doctors at the hospital, often walking around with a clipboard, lab coat and stethoscope. Jack is a former advertising executive who believes he is Jesus Christ. Finally, Albert is a man-child who can only communicate using baseball terminology, particularly from former ball player and commentator Phil Rizzuto. Convinced that his patients need a change of scenery, Dr. Weitzman persuades the administration to allow him to take them to a baseball game at Yankee Stadium. Unfortunately, he accidentally encounters two corrupt cops just as they murder another officer. The doctor then gets knocked unconscious trying to get away and is put in the hospital. The group is now stranded in New York City, forced to cope with a place which is often more bizarre than their sanitarium. After Dr. Weitzman's beating and coma, it is up to the patients to save their doctor from being murdered by the cops. They end up having to both use and overcome their delusions and disorders in order to save the only man who ever tried to help them, with both the police and the killers looking for them. Three revisit scenes from their pasts: Billy (former girlfriend Riley), Henry (his wife and daughter), and Jack (his former employer). As each patient does so individually, they each behave in a competent, rational manner, Henry genuinely missing his family, Billy wishing to pursue a more serious relationship, and Jack appealing to his boss that he and his friends are in trouble (but the boss reports Jack to the police). Ultimately, the patients succeed in turning in the criminals. Their doctor makes a recovery and the patients again attempt a trip to the ballpark, this time with no supervision.