movieId: 7265
title: The Dreamers
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0309987/
ratingValue: 
directors: Bernardo Bertolucci
actors: Michael Pitt, Eva Green, Louis Garrel, Anna Chancellor, Robin Renucci, Jean-Pierre Kalfon, Jean-Pierre Léaud, Florian Cadiou, Pierre Hancisse, Valentin Merlet

synopsis:
In the late 1960's Matthew (Michael Pitt) is a 20-year-old American exchange student who has come to Paris for a year to study French. Matthew comes to appreciate the powerful imagery in the French movies and starts to attend as many movie shows as he can to see a diverse selection of French movies. Matthew was at the Cinematheque Francaise (founded in 1936, is a French non-profit film organization that holds one of the largest archives of film documents and film-related objects in the world. Based in Paris's 12th Arrondissement, the archive offers daily screenings of films from around the world) protesting the firing of Henri Langlois.
Henry was fired by the Government for showing his powerful movies rather than letting them rot in some underground vault. Henry showed all kinds of movies in his theatre: old, new, silent, western, and so on. All the great movie makes came to Henry's institute to learn their craft. Matthew meets the free-spirited twins Theo (Louis Garrel) and Isabelle (Eva Green), the children of a famous French poet and his English wife. The three bond over a shared love and knowledge of film. The crowd is dispersed when the police lead an attack on the protesters.
Theo, Isabelle and Matthew ended up running together and take a night stroll through the streets of Paris. Theo calls Matthew at his room and invites him to dinner with his family at his home.
Theo and Isabelle fight like juveniles in front of their parents, even though they are adults themselves.
At the dinner table, Matthew displays how deeply he observes various things when he demonstrates that the lighter in the hands of Isabelle's father fits many shapes on the table mat, the kitchen even Isabelle's hands. He says that there is a cosmic coherence to things in the Universe. It is clear that Theo disagrees with his father over his political views, who has refused to sign the petition against the Vietnam war. The father argues that before Theo tries to change the world, he should realize that he is a part of it and says that he is a poet and not a politician.
Matthew accepts, considering them his first French friends. Matthew writes home to his mom about his new French friends.
After dinner with their parents (Anna Chancellor and Robin Renucci), Theo and Isabelle offer Matthew the chance to stay with them while their parents are on a trip. Matthew is given his own room to sleep in but gets up in the middle of the night to find a bathroom. As he is not familiar with the house, he stumbles around in the corridors to find it.
On his way back, Matthew sees them sleeping nude together in the same bed. Matthew soon becomes suspicious of their relationship and discovers that they accept nudity and sexuality liberally.
After Theo loses at a trivia game, Isabelle sentences him to masturbate to a Marlene Dietrich poster in front of them. After Matthew loses at another game, he is forced to take Isabelle's virginity. As Matthew and Isabelle fall in love with each other, he asks her what she would do if her parents discovered the nature of her relationship with Théo; she replies that she would kill herself. Matthew begins to accept Theo and Isabelle's sexuality and his time living with them soon becomes idyllic. The three break the world record for running through the Louvre, and Matthew and Theo engage in playful arguments about Charles Chaplin and Buster Keaton, Eric Clapton and Jimi Hendrix, as well as the subject of Maoism, which Theo fervently believes in. Matthew and Isabelle also continue their relationship, although Matthew attempts to take her on regular dates, which she has not experienced before. Matthew begins to pursue a relationship with Isabelle, separate from Theo. Matthew and Isabelle leave the apartment and go on a regular date, which she has never experienced before. Theo retaliates by inviting a companion up to his room, upsetting Isabelle. She distances herself from both Theo and Matthew, only to find them next to each other on Théo's bed when an argument between the two turns erotic. She then surprises them with a makeshift bed-sheet fort and the three fall asleep in each other's arms. One night, while the three are sleeping naked together in the living room, Theo and Isabelle's parents arrive to leave a check for groceries. They are startled and somewhat disturbed by what they find. After they leave, Isabelle wakes up and discovers the check, realizing that their parents have found them. Wordlessly, she attaches a hose to the gas outlet and lays back down with Theo and Matthew, attempting to commit suicide. After a few moments, however, they are woken by a brick being hurled through the window; they discover hundreds of students rioting in the streets. Theo is overjoyed, Matthew tries to stop Théo by kissing him and Isabelle, arguing against violence. As a result, he is shunned by Theo and Isabelle, who rush to join the protesters. As Matthew mournfully walks away through the chaos, Theo takes Isabelle's hand and hurls a Molotov cocktail at a line of police. The film ends as the police charge the crowd.