movieId: 6867
title: The Station Agent
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0340377/
ratingValue: 
directors: Tom McCarthy
actors: Peter Dinklage, Paul Benjamin, Jase Blankfort, Paula Garcés, Josh Pais, Richard Kind, Bobby Cannavale, Patricia Clarkson, Lynn Cohen, Raven Goodwin

synopsis:
Finbar McBride (Peter Dinklage), a quiet, withdrawn, unmarried man with Achondroplastic dwarfism, has a deep love of railroads. He works in a Hoboken model train hobby shop owned by his elderly and similarly taciturn friend Henry Styles (Paul Benjamin). Because he feels ostracized by a public that tends to view him as peculiar due to his size, Fin keeps to himself.
Fin lives next to a train yard. Fin has no friends to speak of and spends most of his waking time with Henry. Henry and Fin live next to each other. They are part of a club of train enthusiasts, who undertake train journey around the world, and make videos of the same, and showcase them to the club. When Henry dies unexpectedly (he was working in his shop when he just fell dead), Fin is told that the hobby shop is to be closed. The building has already been sold and the inventory of the shop will be liquidated. The entire process will take around 6 weeks.
However, he also learns that Henry's will left him a piece of rural property (in Newfoundland, New Jersey) about half an acre in size, with an abandoned train depot on it. Fin takes a train to Newfoundland and walks the rest of the way to the train depot.
He moves into the old building hoping for a life of solitude, but he quickly finds himself reluctantly becoming enmeshed in the lives of his neighbors. Joe Oramas (Bobby Cannavale), a Cuban American, is operating his father's roadside snack truck while the elder man recovers from an illness. Joe lives in Manhattan and has been in Newfoundland for 6 weeks.
Patty (Lynn Cohen) runs the local grocery store. Olivia Harris (Patricia Clarkson) is an artist trying to cope with the sudden death of her young son two years earlier and the ramifications it has had on her marriage to David (John Slattery), from whom she is separated. Olivia has a very unique introduction with Fin. Fin walked to the grocery store and back every day. Twice on consecutive days, Olivia was driving in her SUV and almost ran into Fin, who had to jumped off the road to avoid the swerving car. The first time, she was talking on her phone, and then dropped something inside her car. The second time she spilled coffee on her lap and against almost ran into Fin.
As a way of apology, Olivia drops by later that evening and brings a bottle of Wine for Fin as a gift, which they end up sharing. Olivia learns the story of how Henry left the place to Fin. Olivia sleeps on Fin's couch, and Fin sleeps in his bathtub. Olivia wakes up in the morning and rushes out in embarrassment. Fin finds her mobile left behind and gets her address from Joe to return it. Cleo (Raven Goodwin) is a young African American girl who shares Fin's interest in trains and finally convinces him to lecture her class about them. Emily (Michelle Williams) is the local librarian, a young woman dismayed to discover she is pregnant by her never-do-well boyfriend. Fin cannot borrow books from the library and for that he needs a proof of local address. Nobody has delivered Fin any mail, and thus he cannot produce a proof of address. Joe, relentlessly upbeat and talkative, cracks Fin's reserve. Joe invites Fin for a beer at the bar, but Fin declines saying that he doesn't like bars. Joe offers to bring a six-pack to Fin, but Fin says that he will just go for a walk.
The two take daily walks along the tracks and spend hours waiting for a train to pass by. Later, Fin, Joe and Olivia share a meal, and Fin shares that train enthusiasts have clubs where they watch movies about train journeys and special trains. People who follow trains and film it are called Train Chasers. Fin says that he is not a Train Chaser as he does not know how to drive a car and does not own a movie camera. After Olivia gives Fin a movie camera, Joe drives alongside a passing train in his food-truck so that Fin can film it. Olivia joins Joe and Fin as they walk along the tracks and spend hours just wandering around.
Joe and Fin sleep at Olivia's house after watching the footage. After a long time, Olivia feels beautiful and has the desire to live and enjoy life again. She feels she has friends who care for her and enjoy her company. Joe appreciates Olivia's art.
The next morning, meet a flustered, unannounced David. The trio's tentative friendship is threatened when Olivia descends into a deep depression and disappears. Emily seeks solace in Fin, who realizes human interaction may not be wholly unpleasant. When Fin tries to protect Emily from her boyfriend at a bar he pushes Fin aside, causing Fin to lapse back into his asocial behavior. He gets frustrated with Joe and tells him he just wants to be left alone, which hurts Joe's feelings. Emily comes to apologize for the trouble earlier, and after she and Fin share a kiss, she spends the night with Fin after asking if she can "just sleep" there. Cleo asks Fin if Olivia is coming back; he replies that he doesn't know. Keeping an eye on Olivia's house, he sees her arguing on the phone with David and goes onto her porch. Olivia angrily tells him to leave. Fin spends the night drinking and, collapsing on the track is passed over by a train, unharmed but for his pocket watch. Later Fin even walks up to Olivia's home (in spite of being humiliated the previous time) only to find she has attempted suicide. He takes care of her home while she recuperates in the hospital. Olivia, Joe, and Fin share a meal at Olivia's house, closing the movie with their small talk and reconciliation. Olivia and Joe tease Fin about Emily, suggesting he seek her again.