movieId: 5321
title: The Triumph of Love
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0253840/
ratingValue: 
directors: Clare Peploe
actors: Mira Sorvino, Rachael Stirling, Ben Kingsley, Jay Rodan, Ignazio Oliva, Luis Molteni, Fiona Shaw, Carlo Antonioni, Carlo Marcoccia

synopsis:
In Europe in the 18th century, Aspasie is the princess but only because of criminal acts committed by her family. She travels in a horse-drawn carriage with lady-in-waiting Corine and explains that the rightful prince does not know his is the prince, but was sent away after the death of his parents. Both women change into men's clothing. In a flashback, Aspasie sees the prince Agis naked in the woods and is quite attracted to him, but the philosopher Hermocrates sees her and won't let her anywhere near him. Aspasie explains to Corine back in the present that getting to know Agis will require her to pretend to be a man since he hates women. At the fine home of Hermocrates, Aspasie claims to be a man named Phocion and asks the servant Harlequin to let him meets with the great philosopher but is told that is not possible. Phocion introduces Corine as a man. Phocion meets Leontine, the sister of Hermocrates who is conducting scientific experiments. In hopes of getting to stay Phocion gives the impression "he" is attracted to her. She thinks she is old and no longer desirable but is flattered by Phocion's insistence she is not. For some reason, Leontine occasionally sees an audience watching in the garden, dressed in 20th century clothes. The two women pretending to be men are invited to stay at the estate of Hermocrates. Eventually, "Phocion" meets the philosopher, who realizes he has seen Phocion somewhere before. Aspasie must admit who she is, but does not tell him everything. She does give the impression she is attracted to him, but he thinks it is wrong to give in to the evils of the opposite sex. Aspasie as Phocion meets Agies, who is shooting arrows at a target that looks like the princess, who he hates. Phocion wants to be friends with Agis and asks to learn how to shoot arrows. Harlequin seems to be attracted to Corine. Agis eventually discovers Aspasie is a woman and that she wants more than to be friends. Meanwhile, Aspasie must continue to deceive both Hermocrates and Leontine, pretending to be romancing each one. Each one receives a marriage proposal but neither knows about the other's relationship, until they both prepare to leave on a mysterious trip. Leontine passes out when she learns she was deceived. At one point, a message is sent to the home of the princess and there is a response. Finally, Aspasie arrives in a fine carriage dressed as the princess, accompanied by men on horses. She admits her deception and tells Agis she is relinquishing the throne and that he is the rightful king. Agis is angry and tells the princess to go away and never come back. Leontine's experiments succeed and she is very happy. Agis realizes he shouldn't have sent Aspasie away and he chases after her--not to behead her, but to ask her to come back to him. The audience applauds at the end and the entire cast has changed into 20th-century clothes.