movieId: 1033
title: The Fox and the Hound
year: 1981
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0082406/
ratingValue: 
directors: Ted Berman, Richard Rich, Art Stevens, David Hand, Wolfgang Reitherman
actors: Mickey Rooney, Kurt Russell, Pearl Bailey, Jack Albertson, Sandy Duncan, Jeanette Nolan, Pat Buttram, John Fiedler, John McIntire, Richard Bakalyan

synopsis:
A young red fox is orphaned in the forest, after his mother is chased by hounds and captured. Before being captured, the mother hid her offspring near a barn with a fence. This was seen by an Owl named Big Mama. Big Mama knew that the young fox would require a lot of caring for, that only a human could provide. Big Mama (Pearl Bailey) the owl and her friends, Dinky (Richard Bakalyan) the finch and Boomer (Paul Winchell) the woodpecker, arrange for him to be adopted by kindly farmer Widow Tweed (Jeanette Nolan). They steal Tweed's pajamas and drop it over the young fox, so that Tweed discovers him and takes him home.
Tweed names him Tod (Mickey Rooney) as she sees him as a little toddler. Tweed is a kind, old woman and runs a farm. Abigail is the cow. Meanwhile, her neighbor, hunter Amos Slade (Jack Albertson), brings home a young hound puppy named Copper (Kurt Russell) and introduces him to his hunting dog Chief (Pat Buttram). Chief is at first annoyed by Cooper but then learns to love him.
Amos is a gruff, rude and rough middle-aged man. Tod is naughty and a handful as he scares all the hens and cows on Tweed's farm. Yet, Tweed cannot remain angry at Tod and lets him out to play.
In a side story Dinky and Boomer are always chasing after a green worm, who always manages to escape. On more than one occasion they manage to locate the worm inside the tree, but due to his good luck, he is never injured during Boomer's attempts to catch him in its beak. One day, Tod is feeling lonely and is looking for someone to play with. While wandering Tod crosses the fence over into Amos' property. Copper was with Chief, when he identifies a new, unfamiliar smell and goes to investigate. Tod and Copper meet and become best friends, pledging eternal friendship. Together they play hide and seek, but Copper always wins due to his keen sense of smell and his tracking capabilities. From that day on Tod comes over to play with Copper again and again. They spend time swimming and chasing each other. Amos grows frustrated at Copper for constantly wandering off to play, and places him on a leash to teach the meaning of military discipline. Due to this Tod comes over to play with Copper at the barrel, where he is leashed. While playing with Copper outside his barrel, Tod awakens Chief. Amos and Chief chase Tod with a gun all over Amos' property. Tod is only saved as Chief was still leashed to his own barrel and hence could not catch Tod. Tod manages to cross over into Tweed's property, but Tweed was heading out with her milk to sell it in the market. Tod follows Tweed and Amos goes after Tod in his own car. Tod hides behind the milk containers on Tweed's wagon, and Amos shoots at it, causing all the milk to spill over.
The shooting continues until they are stopped by Tweed who shoots Amos's radiator. Amos rages that Tod was attacking the chickens on his property, which Tweed refuses to believe. After an argument, Amos threatens to kill Tod if he trespasses on his farm again. Hunting season comes and Amos takes his dogs into the wilderness for the interim. Meanwhile, Big Mama, Dinky, and Boomer attempt to explain to Tod that Copper will become his enemy. However, Tod naively insists that he and Copper will remain friends forever. Big Mama tries to explain that in time Amos and Copper will be the hunters and Tod would be the one they hunt down. They show him all the contraptions used by Amos to catch foxes, and the skins of the dead fox that Amos had hunted down in the past. In the middle of the harsh winter, Bomer and Dinky continue to hunt for the worm. The worm escapes and enters Tweed's house through a key-hole, where he settles in nice and cozy next to a fire in the stove. The following spring, Tod and Copper reach adulthood. Copper returns as an expert hunting dog, who is expected to track down foxes. Amos returns to his farm with a whole truck full of fox skins that he and his hounds had hunted over the winter. By now Copper is Amos' favorite hound, which makes Chief jealous. Chief maintains that Copper is still not nasty enough to be a true hound.
During the night, Tod sneaks over to visit Copper. Their conversation awakens Chief, who alerts Amos. A chase ensues and Copper catches Tod who was hiding in the forest, but lets Tod go while diverting Amos. Meanwhile, Tweed keeps her plant outside, where the worm had taken shelter during the winter. Dinky and Boomer again go after him. The worm climbs the drainpipe and hides on an electricity pole. As Boomer tries to attack it, he gets electrocuted, along with Dinky. Chief catches Tod as he attempts an escape on a railroad track bridge. An oncoming train catches them both by surprise, and Tod manages to duck, but the train strikes Chief, resulting in him falling into the river below and breaking his leg. Enraged by this, Copper and Amos blame Tod for the accident and vow vengeance. Realizing Tod is no longer safe with her, Tweed leaves him at a game reserve. After a disastrous night on his own in the woods (it was raining and Tod was all alone in the jungle), Big Mama introduces Tod to Vixey (Sandy Duncan), a female fox who helps Tod adapt to life in the forest. She teaches him fishing and other stuff. They fall in love. Meanwhile, Amos, who had figured out that Tweed had left Tod in the reserve and still was clamoring for revenge, and Copper trespass into the reserve and hunt the two foxes. The chase climaxes when Amos and Copper inadvertently provoke an attack from a large, savage bear. Amos trips and falls into one of his own traps, dropping his gun slightly out of reach. Copper fights the bear in order to protect Amos from the bear's attack but is almost killed by the vicious animal. Tod comes to Copper's rescue and battles it until both he and the bear fall down a waterfall. As Copper approaches Tod as he lies in the lake below, Amos appears, ready to shoot Tod. Copper positions himself in front of Tod to prevent Amos from shooting him, refusing to move away. Amos, understanding Tod had saved their lives from the bear, decides to spare Tod for Copper, lowers his rifle, and leaves with Copper. Tod and Copper share one last smile before parting. At home, Tweed nurses Amos back to health, much to his humiliation. As he lies down to take a nap, Copper smiles as he remembers the day when he first met Tod. At the same moment, Vixey joins Tod on top of a hill as they both look down on Amos' and Tweed's homes. Dinky and Boomer are still chasing the worm, but now the worm has become a butterfly.