movieId: 1303
title: The Man Who Would Be King
year: 1975
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0073341/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Huston
actors: Sean Connery, Michael Caine, Christopher Plummer, Saeed Jaffrey, Larbi Doghmi, Jack May, Karroom Ben Bouih, Mohammad Shamsi, Albert Moses, Paul Antrim

synopsis:
While working as a correspondent at the offices of the Northern Star newspaper, journalist Ruyard Kipling (Christopher Plummer) is approached by a ragged, seemingly crazed derelict, who reveals himself to be his old acquaintance Peachy Carnehan (Michael Caine). Peachy says that he is an ex-sergeant of the British Army and tells Kipling the story of how he and his comrade-in-arms Danny Dravot (Sean Connery) traveled to remote Kafiristan (in modern-day Afghanistan), became gods, and ultimately lost everything. 3 years earlier, the pair of rogues had met Kipling at his office. Peachy was a former Colour sergeant of the Queen's Own Royal Loyal Light Infantry.
After stealing his pocket-watch, Peachy found a masonic tag on the chain and, realizing he had robbed a fellow Freemason, felt he had to return it. Peachy claims to be an expert in "whiskey, women, waistcoats, and bills of fare."
Peachy and Dravot were working on a plot to blackmail a local rajah, which Kipling foiled by getting the British district commissioner (Jack May) to intervene. Peachy later blackmails the commissioner to avoid deportation. Despite being accomplished gun smugglers, swindlers, fencers of stolen goods, con-men, and blackmailers, both of them are bitter that after fighting to make India part of the British Empire, they will have little to return home apart from dead-end jobs.
Frustrated at the lack of opportunities for lucrative criminal mischief, in an India becoming more civilized and with few prospects in the United Kingdom, the two visit Kipling with a plan. Forsaking India, they will head with twenty Martini Henry rifles (stolen from a local armory) and ammunition to Kafiristan, a country virtually unknown to Europeans since its conquest by Alexander the Great. There they will offer their services to a ruler and help him conquer his neighbors but proceed to overthrow him and loot the country. Kipling, after first trying to dissuade them, gives Dravot his masonic tag as a token of brotherhood. After signing a contract pledging mutual loyalty and forswearing drink and women until they achieved their grandiose aims, Peachy and Danny set off on an epic overland journey north beyond the Khyber Pass, "travelling by night and avoiding villages", fighting off bandits, blizzards and avalanches, into the unknown land of Kafiristan (literally "Land of the non-Muslims"). They chance upon a Gurkha soldier who goes by the name Billy Fish (Saeed Jaffrey), the sole survivor of a mapping expedition several years before. Billy speaks English as well as the local Dari tongue, and it is he, acting as translator and interpreter of the customs and manners, who smooths the path of Peachy and Danny as they begin their rise, first offering their services as military advisers, trainers, and war leaders to the chief of the much-raided village of Er-Heb. Peachy and Danny muster a force to attack the villagers' most-hated enemy, the Bashkai. In their first battle, the natives decide that Danny must be a god when he is unharmed after being struck in the chest by an arrow. In fact, the arrow was stopped by a Bandolier hidden beneath his clothing. As victory follows victory, the defeated are recruited to join the swelling army. Finally, there is no one left to stand in their way, and they are summoned to the holy city of Sikandergul. There, the chief high priest, Kafu Selim (Karroom Ben Bouih), sets up a re-enactment of the arrow incident, in order to determine whether Danny is a man or a god by seeing if he bleeds or not. When Danny flinches, the monks grab him and rip open his shirt, only to be stopped however, by Danny's Masonic Jewel (given to him for luck by fellow Mason Kipling). By coincidence, the symbol on the Jewel matches a hidden symbol, known only to the highest holy man, of "Sikander" (Alexander the Great), who had passed through the country thousands of years before and promised to return. The holy men are convinced Danny is the son of Sikander. They hail him as king and lead the two men down to storerooms heaped with treasure that belonged to Sikander, which now belongs to Danny. As the months pass, Peachy is anxious to leave with the treasure before winter closes the passes (and before the natives learn the truth). Danny is against it however and develops delusions of grandeur. First, he suggests that Peachy bow to him like the others. He adjudicates disputes among local people and villages, and issues proclamations overseeing their administration.
Then he begins making plans to turn the land into a modern country, to the extent that he envisages eventually meeting Queen Victoria "as an equal". Disgusted, Peachy decides to take as much booty as he can carry on a small mule train, with his old friend's blessing. Meanwhile, Danny decides to take a wife after seeing the beautiful Roxanne (Shakira Caine), despite Peachy's strong warnings. Danny was breaking his pact with Peachy to forsake women, saying he will marry her to leave the people an heir.
Roxanne, having a superstitious fear that she will be struck dead if she consorts with a god, tries frantically to escape, biting Danny during the wedding ceremony. The bite draws blood, and when everyone sees it, they realize Danny is human after all. The angry natives pursue him and Peachy. As their forces and ammunition dwindle, Dravot and Peachy offer Billy a horse to escape, but Billy refuses and courageously charges into the mob with a Kukri all by himself, before being killed by the mob.
Danny is forced to walk to the middle of a rope bridge over a deep gorge; he apologizes to Peachy before the ropes are cut. Peachy is crucified between two pine trees but is cut down the next day when he survives the ordeal. Eventually, he makes his way back to India, though his mind has become unhinged by his sufferings. As Peachy finishes his story, he presents Kipling with Danny's head, still wearing its crown, thereby proving the tale is true.