movieId: 6182
title: The Thrill of It All
year: 1963
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0057581/
ratingValue: 
directors: Norman Jewison
actors: Doris Day, James Garner, Arlene Francis, Edward Andrews, Reginald Owen, Zasu Pitts, Elliott Reid, Alice Pearce, Kym Karath, Brian Nash

synopsis:
Doris Day insisted on the considerable talents of relatively unknown director Norman Jewison and drama and action movie lead man James Garner for this physical comedy which features relatively late motion picture appearances by star character performers ZaZu Pitts and Arlene Francis. An overworked obstetrician seems out of his wits once his wife ceases being a stay at home to work the time consuming world of commercial advertising. Arlene Francis plays the doctor's late in life pregnant patient who accidentally introduces Doris to her father-in-law, who insists she become the spokeswoman for his line of soaps.The talented James Garner, in a rare comic appearance, seems able to steal the show from Doris at every turn with exquisite timing, extraordinary onscreen chemistry with Doris and hitherto untapped talent for slapstick. comedy . The confusion causes their first maid, ZaZu. Pitts to wrongly assume the doctor has unnatural designs on her when his wife is out working late hours.Their two toddlers, left largely to fend for themselves while mommy and daddy play narcissists, are featured at play in some of the cutest lines throughout the film. ZaZu is replaced by an hilarious second maid who speaks no English, cannot take vital blurted phone messages and ends up escorting the family through acres of soapsuds with daddy's open convertible fallen to the bottom of their swimming pool. Once a psychiatrist convinces Garner to turn the tables on Doris, he gets his secretary at the hospital to pretend to be his mistress to make Doris jealous. Everything is sorted out when Doris ends up at a party given for Arlene Francis. Arlene announces that her baby is due. There seems no way for her to get to the hospital on time. Garner arrives on horseback to deliver the baby with Doris' help. The couple realizes they have plenty of things to keep them together raising their own children , who ask for a little brother or sister at the final credits.