movieId: 1625
title: The Game
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119174/
ratingValue: 
directors: David Fincher
actors: Michael Douglas, Sean Penn, Deborah Kara Unger, James Rebhorn, Peter Donat, Carroll Baker, Anna Katarina, Armin Mueller-Stahl, Charles Martinet, Scott Hunter McGuire

synopsis:
Nicholas Van Orton (Douglas) is a successful and extremely wealthy investment banker, but his success has come at the cost of his personal life. Nicholas is also cold and condescending, as well as lonely and reclusive.
He is estranged from both his ex-wife and his only brother. He remains haunted from having seen his father commit suicide, by jumping off the roof of the family mansion, on the latter's 48th birthday. On his own 48th birthday, Conrad (Sean Penn), Nicholas' rebellious younger brother, presents Nicholas with an unusual gift-a voucher for a "game" offered by a company called Consumer Recreation Services (CRS). Conrad promises that it will change Nick's life. Nicholas has doubts about the gift and delays calling CRS. A chance encounter with fellow club members who enjoyed the Game changes Nicholas' mind. He goes to the organization's offices to apply and is irritated by the lengthy and time-consuming series of psychological and physical examinations required. He is later informed that his application has been rejected. Nicholas returns home one evening to find a wooden clown in his driveway which he drags inside. While watching the Cable Financial Network (CFN), the anchor begins talking to Nicholas through his television screen. The anchor tells Nicholas that he is being watched by a tiny camera in the head of the clown and provides him with the telephone number for a CRS 24-hour emergency hot-line. He warns Nicholas not to call the hot-line asking about the object of the game as "figuring that out is the object of the game." More bizarre events continue happening; Nicholas initially thinks CRS are simply staging elaborate pranks, but then he starts to believe it is real when his business, reputation, and safety are endangered. Nicholas is also haunted by his father's suicide, which he witnessed as a child. He encounters a waitress, Christine (Deborah Kara Unger), who appears to have been caught up in the game and also comes under risk.
Conrad visits Nicholas and apologizes, claiming CRS has attacked him. An argument breaks out between the two brothers, resulting in Conrad running away-leaving Nicholas on his own. Nicholas gets into a taxi; after locking the doors, the driver jumps out before the car crashes into San Francisco Bay. Nicholas manages to escape the sinking car and make it to the surface. Nicholas contacts the police to investigate CRS, but they find the offices abandoned. Eventually, Conrad appears to Nicholas and apologizes for the Game claiming that he too has come under attack by CRS. With no one else to turn to, Nicholas finds Christine's home. He soon discovers that she is a CRS employee and that her apartment has simply been staged to look like a real apartment. Christine tells Nicholas that they are being watched. Nicholas attacks a camera, and armed CRS troops begin to swarm the house and fire upon them. Nicholas and Christine are forced to flee. Christine later tells him CRS has drained his bank accounts by guessing his passwords using the psychological tests he completed, but his lawyer says the money in the accounts is still there. Christine tells him that some of his closest associates are part of the Game. Just as he begins to trust Christine, he begins to feel dizzy and realizes Christine has drugged him. As he loses consciousness, she admits she is part of the scam and says he made a fatal mistake in giving his card security code over the phone. Nicholas wakes up to find himself entombed in a cemetery in Mexico. He is forced to sell his gold watch to return to the United States. Upon his return, he finds that his mansion has been ransacked and vandalized by CRS. He contacts the hotel where Conrad was staying and is told his brother has been committed to a mental institution following a nervous breakdown. He retrieves a hidden gun and seeks the aid of his estranged wife. While talking with her and apologizing for his neglect and mistreatment of her, he discovers that Jim Feingold (James Rebhorn), the CRS employee who had conducted his psychological test, is an actor who works in television advertisements. He locates Feingold and forces him to take Nicholas to CRS, where he takes Christine hostage. He demands to be taken to the leader of the organization. Attacked by CRS troops, Nicholas takes Christine to the roof and bars the door behind them. The CRS troops begin cutting through the door. Christine realizes that Nicholas' gun is not a prop and is terrified. She frantically tells Nicholas that the conspiracy is a hoax, a fiction that is just part of the Game, that his finances are intact and that his family and friends are waiting on the other side of the door. He refuses to believe her. The door bursts open, and Nicholas shoots the first person to emerge: his brother Conrad, bearing an open bottle of champagne. Distraught, Nicholas leaps off the roof, just as his late father did. Nicholas' life passes before his eyes as he falls. He smashes through a glass roof and lands on a giant air bag. Emergency medical technicians carefully remove him, warning him to keep his eyes closed until they remove the fragments of breakaway glass. Nicholas finds he is in a ballroom full of his friends, family, and every figure involved in his Game; it had been just a game all along. Conrad is alive and well and explains that he initiated the game to get his brother to embrace life and not end up like their father. Nicholas breaks into tears, relaxes, and begins to enjoy the party once his shock has dissipated. Later, Nicholas splits the bill for the game with Conrad (and is surprised to discover how expensive it all was). When he sees that Christine has left the party, he follows her outside to her cab. He asks her to dinner, and she offers to enjoy a private coffee with him now before her flight takes her to her next Game assignment.