movieId: 4887
title: The One
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0267804/
ratingValue: 
directors: James Wong
actors: Jet Li, Carla Gugino, Delroy Lindo, Jason Statham, James Morrison, Dylan Bruno, Richard Steinmetz, Steve Rankin, Tucker Smallwood

synopsis:
A superhuman criminal named Gabriel YuLaw (Jet Li), once an officer of the "Multiverse Authority" (MVA) agent from Alpha Universe that polices inter-dimensional travel (via detecting wormhole openings, which can be predicted like the weather). YuLaw seeks to hunt down and kill all other variations of himself in alternate universes.
Travel between Universes is highly restricted and policed. He has already eliminated Yu Fook Law (Jet Li) a R from Monoceros Universe, Swen Law (Jet Li) a surfer from Tucana Universe, Ni Dilaw (Jet Li) from Canopus Universe, Kia Jilaw (Jet Li) from Serpens Universe, Seth Law (Jet Li) a long haired man from Procyon Universe, Frun Law (Jet Li) from Shaula Universe, and Lawless (Jet Li) a notorious and violent criminal from Anubis Universe. YuLaw is arrested for breaking the law by undertaking unauthorized Multiverse jumps. YuLaw is incarcerated by MVA agents Rodecker (Delroy Lindo) and Funsch (Jason Statham) after he kills Lawless. They bring him back to his original Alpha Universe. In total, YuLaw has eliminated 123 alternate versions of himself in other Universes. By killing all of his other selves, and thus becoming the last version of himself and absorbing their life energies into himself, he believes he will become "The One", a godlike being. YuLaw has already become very powerful and has the strength to bend prison bars with his single punch. He has super-human speed and strength. YuLaw manages to escape from captivity during the final phase of his sentence to life (without possibility of return) to a penal colony in the Hades universe. He is helped in his escape by Massie Walsh (Carla Gugino) a sexy red-haired criminal and Gabriel Yulaw's girlfriend and lover in Alpha Universe.
Using the wormhole window, he changes the destination to the Charis Universe. Rodecker and Funsch are stuck as the wormhole window was only for 30 seconds and now, they have to wait for the next window. The last known alternate, Gabriel/Gabe Law (Jet Li), works in the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department from Charis Universe.
For two years he has been experiencing increases in strength, speed and mental ability but neither he nor his wife, T.K. Law (TK) (Carla Gugino), can understand why. While transporting a snitching prisoner for the Sheriff's Department, Gabe "feels" Yulaw's presence just before he attempts to kill Gabriel Law. Yulaw escapes, with Gabe giving chase and leaping a very high wall - which is humanly impossible. Upon landing on the other side Yulaw faces Gabe and shoots him, but not fatally. Going in for the kill, Yulaw is interrupted by Rodecker and Funsch.
Gabe Law sees Yulaw, who is identical to him in every way. Being unfamiliar with inter-dimensional travel between universes, Yulaw's appearance is incomprehensible. At the hospital again Gabe feels Yulaw's presence. There is another fight and Rodecker and Funsch again intervene. Yulaw deters them from shooting him because if he is killed, then Gabe will pose a problem because he would then be left as the only "One". Dressed alike and identical in every way, Gabe and Yulaw's battle confuse Gabe's Sheriff Department colleagues. Both Gabe and Yulaw manage to escape the hospital. Rodecker is faced with a dilemma: they are chasing two super-humans, they cannot kill either one. Funsch insists that YuLaw, as the instigator, must be dealt with in a more aggressive manner. Rodecker makes a fateful decision to "go way off procedure" and split the team. Rodecker pursues Yu Law and is killed. Funsch catches up with Gabe and tells him about the multiverse and why he has become stronger. Yulaw finds Gabe's residence where TK, believing it is Gabe, attempts to protect him, but she senses he is not really Gabe. Gabe arrives only to have Yulaw force him to watch while he kills her. Funsch finds Gabe and they team up to find Yulaw at the next occurrence of a wormhole - an industrial plant. Yulaw, Gabe Law and Funsch arrive at the industrial plant, where the final battle between Gabe and Yulaw takes place. Ultimately Gabe is victorious, but all three are caught in the wormhole and travel back to the MVA headquarters in the Alpha Universe. Yu Law is transported immediately to the prison colony universe after a last-ditch attempt to switch places with Gabe. The MVA then prepares to send Gabriel back to his own universe where he will be arrested and put in prison for the murders Yulaw committed, but Agent Funsch instead sends him a universe that is similar to Gabe's past via another wormhole, after Gabe told him about the events which led up to him meeting his wife. As for Yulaw, now on the penal colony, he declares his intent to still become the one; standing at the top of a Ziggurat in the Hades universe, in order to prove his capability of becoming the one, Yu Law commences to battle oncoming waves of hundreds of provoked fighters approaching the Ziggurat.