movieId: 919
title: The Wizard of Oz
year: 1939
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0032138/
ratingValue: 
directors: Victor Fleming, George Cukor, Norman Taurog, Richard Thorpe, King Vidor
actors: Judy Garland, Frank Morgan, Ray Bolger, Bert Lahr, Jack Haley, Billie Burke, Margaret Hamilton, Charley Grapewin, Pat Walshe

synopsis:
In the early 1900s Dorothy Gale (Judy Garland) is a orphaned teenager on a Kansas farm who daydreams about going "over the rainbow." Dorothy lives with her uncle Henry (Charley Grapewin) and aunt Em (Clara Blandick) on their farm. Dorothy complains that their neighbor Miss Gulch (Margaret Hamilton) is cruel towards Dorothy's dog Toto (Terry), and hits it with a rake. Henry and Em are not much help as their incubator has gone bust and they are busy saving the chicken hatch-lings of the farm. Farmhands include Zeke (Bert Lahr), Hunk (Ray Bolger) and Hickory (Jack Haley). Miss Gulch complains to the Gales that Toto bit her on her leg, and she wants Toto destroyed as it is a menace to society. Gulch has got a note from the sheriff that Toto has to be taken away and locked up in an impound. Gulch takes Toto away, but he escapes from her basket and returns to Dorothy. Dorothy knows that Gulch would return for Toto and decides to run away from home, for Toto's safety. On her way Dorothy meets Professor Marvel (Frank Morgan). Marvel owns a travelling curios booth. Marvel tricks Dorothy by looking at her picture with Aunt Em. Marvel says that Dorothy is running away and in the process has hurt someone who cares deeply for her. Dorothy is ashamed and decides to return home. As Dorothy reaches home, a tornado has hit the area. Her family has taken refuge in the storm shelter and Dorothy is not able to enter it as it is locked from the inside. She has no option but to hide inside the house.
Along with her house and her dog Toto, she's swept from her sepia-toned world to the magical, beautiful, dangerous and technicolor land of Oz by the tornado. Dorothy's house lands on and kills the Wicked Witch of the East who rules the Land of the Munchkins. Munchkins are little people who think at first that Dorothy herself must be a witch. Dorothy is greeted by the Witch of the North, who tells Dorothy that the Munchkins are happy now that they are free from the influence of the Wicked Witch of the East. Munchkins honor Dorothy with a parade and a bust of her in the hall of fame. The Wicked Witch of the West Almira Gulch (Margaret Hamilton), sister of the dead witch, suddenly arrives and threatens Dorothy. Before she can seize her deceased sister's ruby slippers, Glinda (Billie Burke), the Good Witch of the North, gives Dorothy the dead witch's enchanted Ruby Slippers, and the slippers protect Dorothy. Gulch has no power in Munchkinland and is forced to retreat by Glinda but swears vengeance upon Dorothy and Toto.
Glinda advises that if Dorothy wants to go home to Kansas, she should seek the aid of the Wizard of Oz, who lives in Emerald City. To get there, Dorothy sets off down the Yellow Brick Road. Glinda tells Dorothy never to take off the Ruby slippers, and not to leave the Yellow Brick Road. Before she's followed the road very far, Dorothy meets a talking scarecrow whose dearest wish is to have a brain. The Scarecrow is sad that Dorothy does not find him scary and that he can't even scare a crow. Hoping that the wizard can help him, the Scarecrow (Ray Bolger) joins Dorothy on her journey. Scarecrow says that once he has a brain, he will be able to solve puzzles, enjoy nature and do more creative things to pass his time.
Together they come across speaking apple trees who are angry that Dorothy is plucking off their fruit and throw their apples at them to ward them off. They come upon the Tin Woodman (Jack Haley). Tin Woodman is rusted, and Dorothy has to oil him to get him to speak. Tim Woodman says that he was chopping a tree when it started to rain, and he rusted. He longs for a heart as then he could be gentle and sentimental, appreciate love and art. He too joins Dorothy.
The Wicked Witch of the West continues to follow Dorothy and threaten her and her colleagues with dire consequences of their defiance. As they walk through a dense forest, they encounter the Cowardly Lion (Bert Lahr), who wishes for courage. The Lion started crying when Dorothy slapped him on the nose for chasing Toto. The Lion joins the quest in the hope that the wizard will give him some courage.
Dorothy begins to realize her three friends resemble the three farmhands who work for Dorothy's aunt and uncle back in Kansas. On the way to the Emerald City, Dorothy and her friends are hindered and threatened by the Wicked Witch of the West. She wants the ruby slippers to become the powerful person in Oz.
Within sight of the city, the witch conjures up a field of poppies that cause Dorothy, Toto, and the Lion to fall asleep. Glinda saves them by making it snow, which counteracts the effects of the poppies. The four travelers marvel at the wonders they find in the Emerald City a guard (Frank Morgan) does not let them in but agrees later when Dorothy proves herself, the horse driver (Frank Morgan) takes them for a drive and takes time to freshen up: Dorothy, Toto and the Lion have their hair done, the Tin Woodman gets polished, and the Scarecrow receives an infusion of fresh straw stuffing. The four travelers marvel at the wonders they find in Emerald City but are frustrated at their reception by the "great and powerful" Wizard of Oz (Frank Morgan). At first, he won't receive them at all. The Wicked Witch arrives at Emerald City and threatens the city to hand over Dorothy to her. The doorkeeper (Frank Morgan) lets them in because he had an aunt named Em himself and felt sympathy for Dorothy as she was mourning for her aunt.
The Wizard appears as a gigantic fiery green ghostly face, and he declines to help them until they bring him the broomstick of the Wicked Witch of the West. Daunted but determined, they set off again. The witch sends winged monkeys to attack Dorothy's party before they reach her castle. The monkeys snatch Dorothy and Toto and scatter the others. When the witch finds that the Ruby Slippers can't be taken against Dorothy's will as long as the girl is alive, she turns her hourglass and threatens that Dorothy will die when it runs out. Meanwhile, Toto has escaped and runs for help. Dressed as guardsmen, the Lion, the Tin Man, and the Scarecrow sneak into the castle and free Dorothy. They're discovered before they can escape. The witch and her guards corner them and set the Scarecrow on fire. Dorothy douses him with a pail of water, splashing the witch by accident. The water causes the witch to melt away. The guards are happy to let Dorothy have the witch's broomstick, and Dorothy and her friends return to the Emerald City. The wizard isn't pleased to see them again. He blusters until Toto pulls aside a curtain in the corner of the audience chamber to reveal an old man pulling levers and speaking into a microphone. The four travelers confront the Wizard, who insists he is a good man at heart, but confesses to being a humbug. He's abashed and apologetic, but quickly finds ways to help Dorothy's friends: a diploma for the Scarecrow, a medal of valor for the Lion, and a testimonial heart-shaped watch for the Tin Man. Then he reveals that he's from Kansas himself and came to Oz in a hot-air balloon, in which he proposes to take Dorothy home. The wizard appoints the Scarecrow, Tin Man, and Lion rulers of Oz in his absence. Just as the balloon is about to take off Toto runs away. Unable to stop, the Wizard leaves without Dorothy. But Glinda appears and explains that Dorothy has always had the power to get home. Glinda didn't tell her before because Dorothy wouldn't have believed it. Bidding her friends a tearful good-bye, Dorothy taps her heels together three times, repeats "There's no place like home," and the Ruby Slippers take her and Toto back to Kansas. Dorothy wakes up in her own bed with Auntie Em (Clara Blandick) and Uncle Henry (Charley Grapewin) fussing over her. Professor Marvel, an itinerant magician, and the farmhands Hunk (Ray Bolger again), Hickory (Jack Haley again), and Zeke (Bert Lahr again) stop by to see how she's doing. She raises indulgent laughter when she tells them about Oz, but she's so happy to be home she doesn't mind that they don't believe her.