movieId: 2617
title: The Mummy
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120616/
ratingValue: 
directors: Stephen Sommers
actors: Brendan Fraser, Rachel Weisz, John Hannah, Arnold Vosloo, Kevin J. O'Connor, Jonathan Hyde, Oded Fehr, Erick Avari, Stephen Dunham, Corey Johnson

synopsis:
In Egypt,1290 BC, high priest Imhotep (Arnold Vosloo) has an affair with Anck-Su-Namun (Patricia Velásquez), the mistress of Pharaoh Seti (Aharon Ipalé) despite strict rules that other men are forbidden to touch her. When Seti finds out, Imhotep & Anck-Su-Namun murder the monarch. When the Pharaoh's bodyguards, the Medjai, arrive, Anck-Su-Namun kills herself, intending for Imhotep to resurrect her. After Anck-Su-Namun's burial, Imhotep breaks into her crypt and steals her corpse. He flees to Hamunaptra, the city of the dead, where they begin the resurrection. They are caught by Seti's guards before the ritual could be completed. As punishment, Imhotep's priests are mummified alive and Imhotep himself is forced to endure the curse of Hom Dai: his tongue is cut out and he is buried alive with a swarm of flesh-eating scarabs. The ritual curses him to become an immortal walking plague if he were ever to be resurrected. He is buried under high security, sealed away in a sarcophagus below a statue of the Egyptian god Anubis, and kept under strict surveillance throughout the ages by the Medjai, descendants of Seti's palace guards. If Imhotep were ever to be released, the powers that made him immortal would allow him to unleash a wave of destruction and death upon the Earth. In 1923, soldiers from the French Foreign Legion, led by American Rick O'Connell, make a final stand at Hamunaptra against an overwhelming force of Medjai warriors. The soldiers are massacred, and O'Connell makes a final retreat inside the city, only to be cornered by a group of Medjai. However, they flee when Imhotep's evil presence manifests itself, leaving him to die in the desert. In 1926, Cairo librarian & Egyptologist, Evelyn Carnahan (Rachael Weiz) a librarian and aspiring Egyptologist working for museum curator Dr. Terence Bey (Erick Avari) & her brother Jonathan (John Hannah), find a map to Hamunaputra. The existence of the city is now considered a myth along with the treasures believed to reside there. Dr. Bey dismisses Hamunaptra as a myth and accidentally damages the map. Jonathan reveals that he stole the map from Rick O'Connell (Brendan Fraser), who is currently in prison. Rick tells them that he knows the location of the city because his unit of the French Foreign Legion reached the fabled city only to be overrun by Arabs. He makes a deal with Evelyn to reveal the location of Hamunaptra, in exchange for Evelyn saving Rick from being hanged. Evelyn bargains with corrupt prison warden Gad Hassan (Omid Djalili) to free an incarcerated Rick, in exchange for 25% of the found treasure and for the American leading them to Hamunaptra where she hopes to find the golden Book of Amun-Ra. The warden insists on coming along in order to protect his investment. They board a ship to start their expedition to the city, where they encounter another expedition, a band of treasure hunters led by the famed Egyptologist Dr. Allen Chamberlain (Jonathan Hyde) and guided by Beni Gabor (Kevin J. O'Connor), a cowardly former Legion soldier who served with Rick and also knows the location of the lost city. Both groups are attacked by an unknown group as they journey along the Nile. The expedition manages to fight them off, but the map is lost, and the boat goes up in flames, forcing the entire party to go ashore. Rick, Evelyn and Jonathan are separated from the other treasure hunters and procure camels at a nearby market. Since Rick knows the way to the city, they arrive at Hamunaptra at the same time as the other party. Due to tensions between the two groups, they start exploring the city in separate locations. This results numerous fatalities that include Hassan being killed by a scarab he inadvertently releases. Both expeditions come into conflict over a statue which is believed to hold the golden book. The Medjai attacks again after the groups reach Hamunaptra and start exploring the ruins. Rick forces a stand-off by lighting a stick of dynamite and threatening to blow everyone up. The attackers are revealed to be the Medjai with their leader, Ardeth Bay (Oded Fehr). Bay warns them of the evil buried in the city and gives them one day to leave. Ignoring Bay's warnings, the two expeditions continue to dig through the ruins. Evelyn looks for the Book of Amun-Ra, a solid gold book supposedly capable of taking life away but unexpectedly comes across the remains of Imhotep instead. Her team discovers a tomb buried directly below the statue of Anubis. Evelyn's box turns out to function as a key that opens the tomb and inside there is a sarcophagus. The sarcophagus is opened and contains the gory remains of Imhotep. The team of Americans, meanwhile, discover a box containing the black Book of the Dead, accompanied by Canopic jars carrying Anck-Su-Namun's preserved organs. The team of Americans, open the chest, in spite of a warning on its lid that threatens to kill everyone who takes its contents. Each of the Americans takes a jar as loot. Dr. Chamberlain takes the book, but Beni flees the scene out of fear for the curse. At night, Evelyn takes the Book of the Dead from the Americans' tent and reads a page aloud, accidentally awakening Imhotep. Immediately, the first plague announces itself: a swarm of locusts invades the terrain, forcing everyone inside the city. One of the Americans gets lost, and is attacked by Imhotep, who takes his eyes and tongue while partially regenerating his body. Evelyn also encounters Imhotep, and he seems to recognize her as Anck-Su-Namun They run into Ardeth and his group of Medjai warriors again. He berates them for resurrecting Imhotep, who will now bring along death and destruction. The only thing to do is flee the city, until a way can be found to kill him again. The entire group leaves, but Beni is left behind. He also encounters Imhotep, but successfully pleads for his life, and is allowed to become his slave. Beni survives a meeting with Imhotep by pledging allegiance to him and helps him track down the Americans and the Canopic jars in Cairo.
Rick and the Americans plan to leave Egypt, but Evelyn decides to stay, reasoning that releasing the curse was their fault, so they have the responsibility to stop Imhotep. That afternoon, the next plague announces itself: water turning into blood, signaling that Imhotep is nearby. Within the city, those who discovered the Canopic jars are hunted down by Imhotep, restoring his human form while strengthening his supernatural powers.
Rick and Jonathan track down the American whose eyes were stolen, but they find his desiccated body, and Imhotep slowly regenerating his own. Rick tries to kill Imhotep, but he is invulnerable to weapons and only the presence of a cat in the room startles him, and he flees in a dust storm. Rick returns to his quarters as the second plague starts: violent hailstorms ravage the city. Rick locks Evelyn in her room to keep her safe from Imhotep. They witness Imhotep killing Dr. Chamberlain in the streets, taking the Black Book and releasing a swarm of flies. Imhotep proceeds to Evelyn, entering the room and consuming the body of the American on guard. He enters the sleeping Evelyn's bedroom through the keyhole by transforming into sand and tries to kiss her. Rick, Jonathan and the remaining American enter, and scare him away by threatening him with a cat. Hoping to find answers at the museum, the survivors instead find Ardeth hosted by fellow Medjai Dr. Bey. The group comes to the conclusion that Imhotep's aim is still to resurrect Anck-Su-Namun, using Evelyn as a human sacrifice to enable this.
All of a sudden, a solar eclipse occurs, so they have to make haste. Evelyn hypothesizes that if the black Book of the Dead brought Imhotep back to life, the gold Book of Amun-Ra can kill the high priest once again. So, the only way to stop him is to return to Hamunaptra before Imhotep and find the Book of Amun-Ra. The group finds a tablet in the museum that describes the location of both books, and Evelyn deduces that the gold book must be buried beneath the statue of Horus. At that moment, a large group of natives, covered in boils and sores (the next plague) and under Imhotep's spell, surrounded the museum.
The group are soon cornered by Imhotep and a now enslaved city populace, which results in Evelyn's capture while Dr. Bey sacrifices himself to allow the others to escape.
Imhotep returns to Hamunaptra, pursued by Rick and Jonathan. The remaining three Rick, Jonathan and Ardeth try to reach Hamunaptra via a plane piloted by RAF Captain Winston Havelock (Bernard Fox) but crash due to a sandstorm conjured by Imhotep, resulting in Havelock's death and allowing Imhotep to arrive first and begin the ritual. Rick, Jonathan and Ardeth enter Hamunaptra and discover a new area full of Hamunaptra's famed treasures. They quickly get into a battle with Imhotep's resurrected mummy priests, so they make their way to the statue of Horus, where they find the Book of Amun-Ra. However, when cornered by the priests, Ardeth sacrifices himself to allow Rick and Jonathan to escape.
Jonathan and Rick reach the ritual chamber, where Rick frees Evelyn. Jonathan reads an inscription on the book in order to kill Imhotep. Unfortunately, this only summons a group of mummified guards, who chase after Rick, while Evelyn is attacked by the resurrected Anck-Su-Namun. Jonathan succeeds in finishing the inscription, giving him command of the guards just before they kill Rick. He commands the guards to kill Anck-Su-Namun. Imhotep turns his anger towards Rick, while Jonathan and Evelyn succeed in opening the Book of Amun-Ra. Imhotep is about to kill Rick when Evelyn recites the counter-curse. Imhotep's immortal soul is taken from him, and he becomes mortal. Rick fatally stabs him, and rapidly decaying into a mummy again, Imhotep leaves the world of the living, vowing revenge. Beni, who was secretly dragging treasure outside, accidentally sets off an ancient booby trap. As Hamunaptra begins to collapse into the sand, Rick, Evelyn and Jonathan race towards the exit, with Jonathan accidentally dropping the gold book. Beni remains behind and is trapped and eaten by a swarm of flesh-eating scarabs. The heroes escape before Hamunaptra disappears in the sand. Ardeth, who has unexpectedly survived, waits for them outside and thanks them for their help. All three ride off into the sunset on a pair of camels laden with Beni's treasure.