movieId: 8873
title: The Motorcycle Diaries
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0318462/
ratingValue: 
directors: Walter Salles
actors: Gael García Bernal, Rodrigo de la Serna, Mía Maestro, Mercedes Morán, Jean Pierre Noher, Lucas Oro, Marina Glezer, Sofia Bertolotto, Franco Solazzi

synopsis:
In 1952, a semester before Ernesto "Fuser" Guevara (Gael García Bernal) is due to complete his medical degree, he and his older friend Alberto Granado (Rodrigo De La Serna), a biochemist, leave Buenos Aires in order to travel across South America. While there is a goal at the end of their journey - they intend to work in a leper colony in Peru - the main purpose is initially fun and adventure. Guevara is 23 and Granado is 29 as they embark on this adventure. Guevara is a medical student who specializes in leprosy, and he also has a mild asthma. They desire to see as much of Latin America as they can, more than 8,700 miles (14,000 kilometers) in just four and a half months, while Granado's purpose is also to court as many women as will fall for his pick-up lines. Their initial method of transport is Granado's dilapidated Norton 500 motorcycle christened La Poderosa ("The Mighty One"). They wanted to explore a continent that they had only read about in books. The journey starts on the 4th of January. Their planned route is ambitious, going through Buenos Aires, to Patagonia, and then into Chile, bringing them north across the Andes, along the coast of Chile, through the Atacama Desert, to Machu Pichu and into the Peruvian Amazon (where the leper colony is situated) in order to reach the Guajira Peninsula in Venezuela (which is also considered to be the tip of the grand continent of South America) just in time for Granado's 30th birthday on April 2. Guevara and Granado had very different personalities, but they had the same shared passion. Guevara lives with his family including father Ernesto (Jean Pierre Noher), mother Celia (Mercedes Moran), Brothers Roberto (Lucas Oro) and Juan Martin (Franco Solazzi) and sisters Celita (Marina Glezer) and Ana Maria (Sofia Bertolotto). However, due to La Poderosa's breakdown, they are forced to travel at a much slower pace, and don't make it to Caracas until July. Guevara brings a dog with his secretly, packed in a backpack as a gift for his girlfriend Chichina (Mia Maestro) who lives along the way in Miramar. Granado and Guevara reach Miramar where Chichina's family owns a large estate which looks like it is in Switzerland. Chichina's rich family wants her to marry a suitor who has studied law in England and pray for her separation from Guevara.
The family makes Guevara and Granado stay in a tent in the front lawns of their estate. Granado seduces and has sex with the house maid. Granado had planned to be at Miramar for 2 days, but they had already spent 6 days there. Chichina refuses to have sex with Guevara as he does not commit to stay with her. Eventually, Guevara and Granado decide to move ahead from Miramar.
Chichina gifts Guevara $15 in case he ever makes it to the US and asks him to bring her a bikini in case he does. On their way, they try to pitch their tent in a windy location, which does not work, and the tent is blown away. They seek shelter with a local peasant, who makes them sleep in a shed with the other migrant workers.
During their expedition, Guevara and Granado encounter the poverty of the indigenous peasants, and the movie assumes a greater seriousness once the men gain a better sense of the disparity between the "haves" (to which they belong) and the "have-nots" (who make up the majority of those they encounter). In Chile for instance, they encounter a penniless and persecuted couple forced onto the road because of their communist beliefs. In a fire-lit scene, Guevara and Granado ashamedly admit to the couple that they are not out looking for work as well. The duo then accompanies the couple to the Chuquicamata copper mine, where Guevara becomes angry at the treatment of the workers. Later, there is also an instance of recognition when Guevara, atop a luxurious river ship, looks down at the poor dark-skinned peasants on the small wooden rickety boat hitched behind. However, it is a visit to the ancient Incan ruins of Machu Picchu in Peru that solidifies something in Guevara. His musings are then somberly refocused to how an indigenous civilization capable of building such beauty could be destroyed by the creators of the eventual polluted urban decay of nearby Lima. His reflections are interrupted by Granado, who shares with him a dream to peacefully revolutionize and transform modern South America, to which Guevara quickly retorts: "A revolution without guns? It will never work." Later, in Peru, they volunteer for three weeks at the San Pablo leper colony. There, Guevara observes both literally and metaphorically the division of society, as the staff live on the north side of a river, separated from the deprived lepers living to the south. To demonstrate his solidarity, Guevara refuses to wear rubber gloves during his visit choosing instead to shake bare hands with the startled leper inmates. At the end of the film, after his sojourn at the leper colony, Guevara confirms his nascent egalitarian, anti-authority impulses, while making a birthday toast, which is also his first political speech. In it he evokes a pan-Latin American identity that transcends both the arbitrary boundaries of nation and race, on the basis of the unity of the Mestizo people. These encounters with social injustice transform the way Guevara sees the world, and by implication motivates his later political activities as a Marxist revolutionary. Lastly, Guevara makes his symbolic "final journey" at night when, despite his asthma, he swims across the river that separates the two societies of the leper colony, to spend the night in a leper shack, instead of in the doctors cabins. As they bid each other farewell, Granado reveals that his birthday was not in fact April 2, but rather August 8, and that the aforementioned goal was simply a motivator: Guevara replies that he knew all along. The film is closed with an appearance by the real 82-year-old Alberto Granado, along with pictures from the actual journey and a brief mention of Che Guevara's eventual 1967 CIA-assisted execution in the Bolivian jungle.