movieId: 50
title: The Usual Suspects
year: 1995
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114814/
ratingValue: 
directors: Bryan Singer
actors: Stephen Baldwin, Gabriel Byrne, Benicio Del Toro, Kevin Pollak, Kevin Spacey, Chazz Palminteri, Pete Postlethwaite, Suzy Amis, Giancarlo Esposito, Dan Hedaya

synopsis:
Hardened criminal Dean Keaton (Gabriel Byrne) lies badly wounded on a ship docked in San Pedro Bay. He is confronted by a mysterious figure he calls "Keyser," (Scott B. Morgan), who shoots him dead and sets fire to the ship. The next day, the police recover 27 bodies and only two survivors: Arkosh Kovash ("Akos Kovacs"), a Hungarian mobster hospitalized with severe burns, and Roger "Verbal" Kint (Kevin Spacey), a con artist with cerebral palsy. U.S. Customs agent Dave Kujan (Chazz Palminteri) flies to Los Angeles from New York City to interrogate Verbal. The men are left alone in a borrowed office belonging to LAPD police sergeant Jeff Rabin (Dan Hedaya) while FBI agent Jack Baer (Giancarlo Esposito) visits a hospitalized Kovash. The events that led Keaton, Verbal, and their associates onto the ship are then described by Verbal via flashback. Six weeks earlier in New York City, Keaton (who has a lawyer girlfriend) and Verbal (Verbal has a limp and a disabled arm) meet career criminals Michael McManus (Stephen Baldwin), Fred Fenster (Benicio Del Toro), and Todd Hockney (Kevin Pollak) in a police lineup after they are arrested as the usual suspects in a truck hijacking (the truck was full of guns) that none of them participated in. Believing the police were unfairly harassing them (the police had nothing to go on and were hoping that one of them would slip up and give them something to go on). Keaton was trying to get investors for his restaurant business when he was arrested, so now the investors won't touch him. He is bailed by his girlfriend Edie. Keaton knows he is finished in NYC. The newly assembled group decide to pull a heist to get revenge on the NYPD. Led by Keaton (who was convinced by Verbal), they rob a jewel smuggler being escorted by corrupt cops (for a few hundred dollars per mile, NYPD cops would escort smugglers and drug dealers all over town), netting millions in emeralds, and getting over fifty cops arrested (all of whom were involved in the escort racket. This was due to an anonymous phone call from Keaton to Internal affairs that led them straight to the emerald escort site, before the cops could arrive).
They then go to California to fence the jewels through a man named Redfoot (Peter Greene), who connects them with another jewel heist. The heist goes badly (the jeweler and his bodyguards have to be shot dead and his briefcase reveals no money, but a stash of drugs), and the men learn that the job was arranged by a lawyer named Kobayashi (Pete Postlethwaite). They meet Kobayashi, who says he arranged for their arrests in New York and that his employer, mysterious Turkish crime lord Keyser Soze, from whom each of the men has unwittingly stolen (Keaton having stolen construction materials, McManus and Fenster later having done the same, Hockney having been responsible for the truck robbery that brought about the line-up, and Verbal having defrauded one of Soze's couriers out of $62,000), has ordered them to raid a ship holding Argentinian drug dealers (who are also Soze's rivals) and destroy $91 million worth of cocaine (which will effectively put them out of business and eliminate Soze's competition in the drugs business) being sold on board. The cash brought for the exchange will be their reward. Kobayashi says Soze will destroy their families if they refuse to comply with his order. During Kujan's interrogation (Verbal is politically connected and will be out on bail in 2 hours, and Kujan arranged to speak with Verbal for those 2 hrs. He wants to understand why there was no cocaine on the ship and to confirm that Keaton is dead), it is learned that there was no cocaine on the ship and Soze was seen on-board. Kujan says Verbal is withholding something as Keaton used to be a cop 15 years ago and was known to be corrupt.
Kujan continues to press that once upon a time, when Keaton was a cop, he was about to be convicted for murder. But he faked his own death and the witnesses to his death, turned up dead later. The police convicted someone else, and Keaton turned up alive. Kujan is not convinced that Keaton died on the docks that night. Verbal then tells Kujan a legend about Soze: he was a small-time drug runner who murdered his own family when they were being held hostage by Hungarian mobsters, then massacred the mobsters and their families before disappearing, and from then on conducted business only indirectly through underlings who are mostly unfamiliar with their true employer. Soze thus became a fearsome urban myth, "a spook story that criminals tell their kids at night." Concluding his story, Verbal reveals Fenster was killed by Soze trying to flee, because he couldn't handle the thought of working for Soze. Keaton vows to finish Kobayashi as he believes there is no Soze, and that's just a myth. Keaton and the gang manage to kidnap Kobayashi and are about to kill him, when he mentions that he has Edie in his custody and proves it to Keaton. The gang realizes that Soze has all their families under surveillance and will kill them all, if his orders are not followed.
The men attacked the ship during the night (Verbal was kept out of the attack, as he is anyways half crippled), killing several Argentinian and Hungarian gangsters before discovering that there was no cocaine. An unseen assailant killed Hockney, McManus, Keaton, and a prisoner in one of the ship's cabins. The mysterious figure then set fire to the ship as Verbal looked on from a hiding place on the dock. Kujan deduces that Keaton must be Soze, as one of the persons killed on the ship was Arturo Marquez, a smuggler who escaped prosecution (he was arrested in US for drug smuggling) by claiming he could identify Soze. Marquez was represented by lawyer Edie Finneran (Suzy Amis), Keaton's girlfriend, who was recently murdered. Kujan claims that the Argentinians took Marquez to sell him to Soze's Hungarian rivals (which is what the $91M payment was for. from the same Hungarians whom Soze brutally murdered a few years ago). Keaton then used the assault so that he could kill Marquez personally and fake his death. Verbal finally confesses that Keaton had been behind everything but refuses to testify in court. Verbal's bail is posted, and he is released. Moments later, Kujan realizes Verbal apparently fabricated his entire story by piecing together details from random items in Rabin's cluttered office. At the same time, Baer interrogates Kovash in his hospital bed, along with a police artist who is creating a sketch. Meanwhile, Verbal walks outside, gradually losing his limp and flexing his supposedly disabled hand. As Kujan pursues Verbal, a fax arrives at the police station with the artist's facial composite of Soze. The picture resembles Verbal, revealing that he was Soze all along. Verbal/Soze enters a car driven by "Kobayashi" and leaves moments before Kujan arrives on the scene.