movieId: 2421
title: The Karate Kid Part II
year: 1986
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0091326/
ratingValue: 
directors: John G. Avildsen
actors: Pat Morita, Ralph Macchio, Pat E. Johnson, Bruce Malmuth, Eddie Smith, Martin Kove, Garth Johnson, Brett Johnson, Will Hunt, Evan James

synopsis:
Daniel LaRusso squares off against Johnny Lawrence (William Zabka) of the Cobra Kai dojo in the final match of the All-Valley Karate Tournament and wins the match and the tournament when he plants his mentor's, Mr. Miyagi's, signature move, a "crane kick" to Johnny's chin. Following the match, Daniel is showering and suggests to Miyagi that they perhaps go on tour to different karate championships. Miyagi kindly says that Daniel should consider "early retirement". Daniel humbly agrees. Shortly after the All-Valley Karate Tournament, Sensei John Kreese (Martin Kove) becomes furious and attacks Johnny in the parking lot. Miyagi confronts Kreese, throwing him off Johnny. Kreese tries to punch Miyagi who swiftly and calmly steps aside as the larger man drives his fist through a car window. Miyagi dodges a similar punch and Kreese breaks another car window. In pain and with both his fists bloody, Miyagi grabs him and threatens to strike a deadly blow to the man's throat, repeating Kreese's mantra of training to be merciless. Daniel looks on horrified at his teacher's unexpected rage but instead, Miyagi comically tweaks Kreese's nose and walks away. Seeing Kreese's humiliation, Johnny and the other students abandon him and Cobra Kai. Miyagi explains to Daniel that Kreese will have to live with the shame of being publicly humiliated, which is far worse than death. Six months later, Daniel (Ralph Macchio) visits Mr. Miyagi's (Pat Morita) house. The car that Miyagi gave him, a 1948 Ford Super De Luxe, is having mechanical trouble and Daniel, dressed in a tuxedo, is talking angrily about how badly his prom went: his girlfriend, Ali, had borrowed his car and had caused the mechanical trouble. Daniel explains that at the senior prom Ali has dumped him for a football player from UCLA. To make matters worse, Daniel tells Miyagi that his mother has accepted a temporary transfer to Fresno for the summer and Daniel will have to go with her. Miyagi quickly fixes Daniel's car and takes him to the back of his house where he seems to be constructing a new addition to his house. He persuades Daniel to calm down and focus with his breathing technique and shows Daniel how to drive nails with a single shot. Daniel soon feels better and asks Miyagi what the addition to the house is for. Miyagi tells Daniel that the room is for a "refugee" from Fresno -- he'd talked to Daniel's mother, who'd agreed to let Daniel stay in Los Angeles with Miyagi for the summer. Miyagi receives a letter notifying him that his father is sick. He plans to return to his home village on Okinawa Island, part of Japan. Daniel's hope of staying with Miyagi instead of going to Fresno are dashed. Miyagi explains that he fell in love with a woman named Yukie (Nobu McCarthy), who was arranged to marry his best friend Sato (Danny Kamekona), son of the richest man in the village and fellow karate student of his father. Miyagi talks about how he was young and foolish and had told the entire village that he was going to marry Yukie despite her parents' wishes.
Upon announcing his intentions to marry Yukie, Sato challenged him to a fight to the death. Rather than fight, however, Miyagi left the country. When he's about to board his plane, Daniel suddenly shows up, having persuaded his mother to accompany Miyagi on the trip. Miyagi is reluctant and Daniel tells him he'd used his college savings to buy the ticket. Miyagi agrees and they both fly to Okinawa. On the plane Daniel studies a book on Okinawan history and is strangely unable to locate Miyagi's village on the map. In Okinawa, Miyagi and Daniel notice a large poster ad in the airport for Sato's own dojo depicting him smashing a thing beam with his bare hand. They are greeted by Chozen Toguchi (Yuji Okumoto) who, after sinisterly squeezing Daniel's hand, takes them to meet Sato and reveals that he is Sato's nephew. Sato demands to fight Miyagi, who adamantly refuses. Sato and Chozen leave Miyagi and Daniel to find their own way to town. In a taxi, they stop at the US Air Force base, which Miyagi remembers being the location of his village, called Tomi. An Air Force officer tells them that the village was moved years ago when the base expanded. Arriving at the village, Miyagi and Daniel are welcomed by Yukie and her niece Kumiko (Tamlyn Tomita).
Later, Miyagi's father requests that both his son and Sato see him. He joins their hands together, asking them to make peace between them. They discover that Sato has become a rich industrialist whose super-trawlers have destroyed the local fish population, impoverishing the other villagers. They are forced to rent property from Sato, who owns the village's land title. Yukie reveals that she never married Sato, because of her love for Miyagi. After Miyagi's father dies, Sato gives him three days to mourn out of respect before their fight. Miyagi takes Daniel on a tour of Tomi. They arrive at the fishing house where Miyagi used to work. Miyagi shares a story about how he was distracted when a large net of fish came in and he was almost impaled on the net hook. To demonstrate, he releases one of the hooks and swivels at the hips and knees, just barely avoiding being killed. Miyagi calls it the "drum technique", which is reminiscent of the ceremonial drum of the local villagers. Miyagi shows Daniel the secret to his family's karate, a handheld drum that twists back and forth illustrating the "drum technique", a block-and-defense karate move that Daniel begins to practice. Sometime later, Daniel accidentally exposes corruption in Chozen's grocery business. Daniel catches Chozen cheating the villagers for food with fake scale weights. Chozen also seems jealous of Daniel's budding relationship with Kumiko and harangues him often. Chozen accuses Daniel of insulting his honor, and they have a series of confrontations. When Kumiko sees Daniel practicing the "drum" technique he'd learned from Miyagi, she tells him it looks like an ancient Japanese dance called "O-Bon". While she shows him the o-bon, Chozen and his thugs show up. They taunt Daniel and a minor brawl breaks out between the two rivals, with Chozen winning and knocking Daniel down. Kumiko furiously throws a rotten piece of fruit at Chozen, who whirls on her but doesn't attack. He takes off his shirt and tosses it to her, telling her to keep it. Later, on a date with Kumiko, they go into a bar full of locals and American servicemen who, despite their obvious ignorance of martial arts, are trying to karate chop thick sheets of ice for money. None of them have made it through more than two sheets. Daniel explains to Kumiko what they're doing wrong and one of the Americans drops a challenge. Chozen suddenly appears offering 3-to-1 odds that Daniel can't break six sheets. Miyagi steps in, having been found nearby by Kumiko, and takes Chozen's wager. Sato is there too and covers Chozen's bet. At Miyagi's suggestion, Daniel meditates for a few moments and easily breaks all six sheets. Chozen tries to renege on the bet saying they shouldn't give the money to Miyagi but Sato orders Chozen to pay up. Miyagi gives Daniel his share of the money, telling him to replenish his college fund back home. Later that night, Daniel goes with Kumiko to a 1950s sock hop. Chozen is there and begins to beat on Daniel and takes the money he'd lost back. Daniel hits Chozen in the crotch, a move Miyagi had jokingly shown Daniel earlier, and gets his money back, retreating with Kumiko. Miyagi meets with Sato at Sato's house. There he finds Sato practicing on a large wood plank. Miyagi knows the plank is the same one they found on the beach as friends. Miyagi appeals to Sato, saying he still doesn't want to fight his old friend. Sato scoffs and walks away. When Miyagi's three days of mourning have passed, Sato and Chozen show up at Miyagi's home. When they are unable to find Miyagi, Sato leaves, telling his nephew to "leave a message" for him. Daniel is awoken by their voices and goes downstairs to the courtyard and is immediately grabbed by Chozen's friends. Daniel and Chozen's feud comes to a head when Chozen and his cronies attack Daniel and vandalize Miyagi's family property. Chozen threatens Daniel with a spear, using it to get him in a choke hold while his friends tear up the courtyard garden. Miyagi appears and orders Chozen to let Daniel go. Miyagi then engages all three boys in a short fight, defeating them all, including Chozen who tries to use the spear. Miyagi wrests it away and stops short of stabbing Chozen with it, eventually breaking it in half. He takes Daniel in the house while the boys leave, telling his student they'll leave tomorrow. Miyagi and Daniel plan to return to Los Angeles before the situation gets worse. However, Sato shows up with bulldozers and threatens to destroy the village if Miyagi refuses to fight. Forced to comply, Miyagi gives in on the condition that Sato signs the village's land title over to the villagers regardless of the fight's outcome. Sato begrudgingly agrees after Miyagi describes the condition as a "small price" to pay for honor. Miyagi later talks to Daniel, telling him he's willed the house in Los Angeles and all it's contents to Daniel should he die in the fight. Miyagi goes off to prepare. Daniel passes by a small chapel where he sees Sato meditating. As he walks past, he sees Kumiko sitting alone in another house. When he joins her, he sees that she's prepared a tea ceremony for them both. When the ritual is complete, the two of them kiss. As they share their romantic moment, the wind suddenly kicks up and a typhoon hits. Villagers take cover at a nearby shelter. Miyagi is there already, and he and Daniel see the chapel that Sato was meditating in suddenly collapse. They both run over to find Sato pinned under a thick beam. While Sato yells about Miyagi taking advantage of his helplessness, Miyagi strikes the beam, breaking it in half. They free Sato, who is thoroughly stunned at his quiet rival's sheer might and take him to the shelter. After carrying Sato to safety, Daniel attempts to rescue a child on top of a nearby bell tower. Sato orders Chozen to help, but when he refuses, Sato rushes to assist Daniel himself. When he and Daniel return safely with the child, Sato disowns his nephew for refusing to cooperate, and an enraged Chozen runs off into the storm in disgrace. The next morning, as the villagers are rebuilding, Sato returns with his bulldozers, only this time to help rebuild the village. Sato hands over the land title to the village and asks for Miyagi's forgiveness, which he accepts. Daniel and Kumiko approach Sato about hosting the upcoming O-Bon festival in the ancient ruins of a nearby ceremonial castle, to which he agrees and invites Daniel to join in the celebration. While Kumiko is performing a dance at the festival, a now-vengeful Chozen zip-lines into the presentation, taking her hostage and demanding to fight Daniel alone, to the death. After a fierce fight, Daniel is eventually overwhelmed by Chozen. Miyagi, Sato and the crowd respond by twisting handheld drums they brought to the celebration, inspiring Daniel. Seemingly confused, Chozen closes in for the kill, but Daniel is able to deflect Chozen's attacks and land counterattacks using the drum technique. Daniel grabs the vanquished Chozen, raising his hand and threatening to end Chozen's life saying, "Live or die, man?!" Chozen chooses death, but, reminiscent of the way Miyagi handled Kreese earlier, Daniel tweaks Chozen's nose and drops him to the ground. Daniel embraces Kumiko, while Miyagi looks on proudly.