movieId: 733
title: The Rock
year: 1996
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0117500/
ratingValue: 
directors: Michael Bay
actors: Sean Connery, Nicolas Cage, Ed Harris, John Spencer, David Morse, William Forsythe, Michael Biehn, Vanessa Marcil, John C. McGinley, Gregory Sporleder

synopsis:
Rogue Force Recon Marines led by heroic Brigadier General Francis "Frank" Hummel (Ed Harris) seizes a stockpile of 15 rockets armed with VX gas, a highly toxic chemical weapon, from a Naval Weapons Depot.
Hummel and his men including second-in-command Major Tom Baxter (David Morse) then seize Alcatraz Island and take 81 tourists hostage, placing them in the prison cells, then threatening the FBI and Pentagon with launching the VX rockets against the population of San Francisco, unless the government pays ransom of $100 million from a military slush fund, which he will distribute to his men and the families of Recon Marines who died on covert missions under his command, but whose deaths were not compensated. In one such recent mission, 15 of Hummel's men were slaughtered as they were refused any assistance in the battlefield as they were behind enemy lines. Hummel went through the chain of command and even to the Congress and the Senate committees to get justice for his men but was denied. Hummel decided then that such inhuman treatment of US Marines had to stop.
Hummel also recently lost his wife Barbara and now had nothing to live for, but his men and the unit under his command. The Department of Defense and the FBI plot to retake Alcatraz by infiltrating the old tunnel system beneath the island, with Navy SEALs.
The Pentagon and FBI develop a plan to retake the island with an elite Navy SEAL team led by Commander Anderson (Michael Biehn), enlisting chemical weapons expert Stanley Goodspeed (Nicolas Cage) to help remove the VX and disarm the rockets. Goodspeed is not a field agent but has no choice in the matter as he is the only expert available. With no knowledge of the latest architecture of the tunnels, and in need of reliable first-hand knowledge of the physical layout of Alcatraz, FBI Director Womack (John Spencer) releases federal prisoner John Mason (Sean Connery), the only former inmate of Alcatraz to ever successfully escape. Mason is a former British MI6 and SAS operative and stole a microfilm created by J. Edgar Hoover containing classified U.S. information. Mason refused to reveal the microfilm's location after being captured, knowing he would be killed and was imprisoned without trial. Mason is bribed with a pardon to cooperate with the FBI, but in reality, Womack has no intention of keeping the promise. Mason agrees after signing a pardon that clears his record, though Womack destroys it shortly after.
Mason escapes to make contact with his estranged daughter Jade Angelou (Claire Forlani). Mason leads the FBI and Goodspeed on a car chase causing a rampage through the city before being caught by Goodspeed. At the command center, Mason negotiates to join the team heading to Alcatraz.
With Mason, the team infiltrates Alcatraz. But the entire prison has sensors installed by Hummel's team and are quickly discovered. They confronted by Hummel's men in the shower room. Hummel tries to convince Anderson to surrender, but the zealous Captain Frye and Captain Darrow deliberately cause a shootout that kills Anderson and his team. Mason and Goodspeed manage to evade them.
Goodspeed wants to finish the mission and attempts to strong-arm Mason into helping. Believing the mission to be a failure, Mason sees this as his chance to escape custody, and disarms Goodspeed., Mason prepares to leave until Goodspeed reveals the truth about the VX, explaining that Mason's daughter and his pregnant fiance, Carla, would be killed as well. Mason and Goodspeed eliminate several teams of Marines and disable twelve of the fifteen rockets by removing their guidance chips. FBI prepares strike fighters with Plasma to destroy the entire island along with the VX gas. Mason tells Goodspeed that as a British agent he stole a microfilm containing serious secrets about U.S. and other world leaders and events. The information came from the personal files of former FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover. Mason was imprisoned for 33 years when he refused to divulge the location of the microfilm. Hummel threatens to execute a hostage if they do not surrender and return the chips. Mason destroys them before submitting to Hummel to try reasoning with him and stall for time. Goodspeed disables another rocket but then gets captured. They escape from their cells, but Mason, having assessed Hummel as a soldier who doesn't kill innocents, leaves, with Goodspeed continuing on his own. Caught and held at gunpoint, Goodspeed is forced to surrender, but Mason saves him, convinced that Goodspeed's unborn child needs its father. As the deadline passes, Hummel launches but then destroys the warhead at last minute. When confronted by Captains Darrow (Tony Todd) and Frye (Gregory Sporleder), Hummel explains the rocket threat was an elaborate bluff, as he had never intended to harm innocent civilians. He declares the mission over and orders the Marines to leave Alcatraz with some hostages and the remaining rocket to cover their retreat while he assumes the blame.
His men mutiny saying they expect to be paid for their trouble. A firefight ensues as Baxter is killed defending Hummel, who is mortally wounded. The general manages to tell Goodspeed where the last rocket is before dying. An airstrike is initiated to destroy Alcatraz with experimental Thermite plasma bombs, which will neutralize the gas but kill everyone on the island.
As Goodspeed retrieves the VX globule, he is attacked by one of Hummels men. Goodspeed breaks the globule in the attacker's mouth, killing him instantly. He then injects his own heart with a vaccine to protect himself from death. Though Goodspeed signals that the threat is over, one jet accidentally drops a plasma bomb, and the blast throws Goodspeed into the bay, and Mason rescues him. Goodspeed confirms the mission's success to Womack but claims Mason was killed in the explosion before telling Mason that Womack shredded his pardon. The pair part ways amicably, with Mason recommending Goodspeed to a church in Kansas where he kept the microfilm. Sometime later, Goodspeed and his newly wedded wife, Carla, recover the microfilm from the church.
Mason had told him where to find it. He looks at the microfilm and asks Carla if she'd like to know who really shot JFK.