movieId: 533
title: The Shadow
year: 1994
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0111143/
ratingValue: 
directors: Russell Mulcahy
actors: Alec Baldwin, John Lone, Penelope Ann Miller, Peter Boyle, Ian McKellen, Tim Curry, Jonathan Winters, Sab Shimono, Andre Gregory, Brady Tsurutani

synopsis:
In Tibet after the First World War, at the court of a powerful foreign warlord, an American named Lamont Cranston (Alec Baldwin) has succumbed to his darker instincts during the war. He then vanished into the Orient, where he exists as a brutal warlord and opium kingpin under the alias of Yin-Ko (Mandarin Chinese meaning "Dark Eagle"). One night he is abducted from his palace by servants of the Tulku (Barry Dennen), a holy man who exhibits otherworldly powers and knows Cranston's identity. Tulku lives in a huge temple deep and high within the mountains, but the temple itself is hidden to the outside world. Only the chosen ones are allowed to see the temple. Tulku informs Cranston that he will become a force for good. Tulku says that Cranston has the ability to see the evil in men's hearts as he has seen the evil himself.
Cranston objects but is silenced by the Phurba (Frank Welker), a mystical living knife that assaults Cranston, wounding him. Cranston is unable to refuse and remains under the tutelage of the Tulku for seven years. The price of Cranston's redemption was to take up man's struggle against evil.
He learns to "cloud men's minds", a form of hypnosis that allows him to influence others' thoughts through the force of concentration and bend their perceptions so that he becomes invisible, save for his shadow (the only thing he can never hide). Cranston returns to New York and resumes his previous life. No one is aware of his past in the East, and he is seen as a shallow and opulent playboy. He operates as The Shadow, a vigilante that terrorizes the underworld. Citizens who are saved by the Shadow are recruited to be his allies, providing him with informants and specialists. The existence of The Shadow is regarded by the public as nothing more than an urban legend. Moses "Moe" Shrevnitz (Peter Boyle) is a cab driver allied with the Shadow. Dr. Roy Tam (Sab Shimono) is a Chinese scientist rescued by the Shadow. Burbank (Andre Gregory) is an ally of the Shadow who runs his spy network which is connected to a central station through a network of communication pipes running through the city, used by the allies to deliver messages to The Shadow.
Cranston's allies are given a special ring that helps them identify each other as members of The Shadow's organization. His identity is largely unknown, especially to his Uncle Wainwright (Jonathan Winters), who happens to be the Police Commissioner of New York, who he has to regularly hypnotize in order to keep the police from interfering with him. The Shadow's secret is endangered when Cranston meets Margot Lane (Penelope Ann Miller), an eccentric socialite who is also a natural Telepath. He is intrigued, but unable to continue seeing her as he cannot keep his thoughts from her. Cranston is challenged by Shiwan Khan (John Lone), another student of the Tulku who possesses even sharper powers but did not turn to good. Shiwan Khan arrives in New York inside Genghis Khan's sarcophagus and delivered to the New York museum. Isaac Newbold (Joseph Maher) is curator of the New York museum and Berger (Max Wright) is the assistant curator. Isaac is astonished to find a sarcophagus made of pure Silver delivered to the museum. He is shocked to read the inscription and realize that the sarcophagus belongs to Genghis Khan.
The sarcophagus opens at night, revealing Khan, who kills Nelson (Ethan Phillips), the night guard at the museum. Through his network, Cranston learns about Khan's arrival in the city. Khan is the last descendant of Genghis Khan and plans to fulfill his ancestor's goal of world domination. He offers Cranston an alliance, sensing that blood-lust and a thirst for power still exists in his heart, but Cranston refuses. Cranston acquires a rare coin from Khan and learns that it is made of a metal called Bronzium that theoretically can generate an explosion large enough to destroy a city. This suspicion is confirmed when he learns that Margot's father Reinhardt (Ian McKellen), an atomic scientist working for the War Department, has vanished. Cranston deduces that Khan has compelled Reinhardt to create an atomic bomb. Shiwan Khan hypnotizes Margot Lane and sends her after Cranston, hoping to force him to kill her and reawaken his darker side, but the attempt is unsuccessful. Cranston breaks Khan's hold on her but she is now aware of his secret identity. Cranston goes to rescue Reinhardt but is thwarted by several of Khan's henchmen. The Shadow suffers another setback when he confronts Reinhardt's former assistant Farley Claymore (Tim Curry), who has joined Khan's forces. Claymore traps the Shadow in a submersion tank, but he saves himself by mentally summoning Margot. The Shadow learns of Khan's hideout: the luxurious Hotel Monolith, a building in the middle of the city that Shiwan Khan has rendered invisible as it appears to everyone as an empty lot. Knowing that Khan has Reinhardt hostage and the completed bomb in his possession, he infiltrates the hotel for a final showdown. The Shadow fights his way through the hotel, killing Claymore and Khan's warriors. He faces Khan and is subdued by the Phurba, sustaining multiple injuries until he forces himself to concentrate and overcome Khan's power. He takes control of the Phurba and sends it into Khan's torso, splitting his concentration which undoes both Reinhardt's hypnotic state and the hotel's invisibility. As the citizens outside see a building appear, the Shadow pursues Khan into the bowels of the building while Margot and Reinhardt disable the bomb. The Shadow defeats Khan by psychically hurling a mirror shard into his skull. Khan awakens in an asylum, confused as to how he got there and discovering that his powers no longer work. He learns that the doctors saved his life by removing the part of his brain that harbored his psychic abilities. He demands to be set free but is ignored along with the rants of the other inmates. Unknown to him, the doctor is an agent of the Shadow who has ensured that Khan is no longer a threat. Cranston and Margo begin a relationship and join forces to fight the criminal underworld.