movieId: 917
title: The Little Princess
year: 1939
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0031580/
ratingValue: 
directors: Walter Lang, William A. Seiter
actors: Shirley Temple, Richard Greene, Anita Louise, Ian Hunter, Cesar Romero, Arthur Treacher, Mary Nash, Sybil Jason, Miles Mander, Marcia Mae Jones

synopsis:
Sara's army captain father must put her in boarding school because he has been ordered to the Boer war. He brings her to the "best" girls' school in England, but the owner, Miss Minchin only accepts her after he emphasizes his financial and social status. He instructs Miss Minchin that he will reimburse her for additional expenses to ensure that Sara has the best of everything in his absence. The unspoiled Sara enjoys her privileged life but misses her father. Her kindness stuns the young school servant, Becky. Sara befriends Ram Dass, a servant in the house next door, who is from her beloved India. She also makes friends with a teacher and her secret boyfriend, the riding instructor, and assists their meetings. Sara also discovers a secret dancer, Miss Minchin's brother Bertie, and they delight in impromptu performing when they won't get caught. Sara's father's letters cease when his station at Mafeking is besieged. When new troops arrive and relieve Mafeking, Sara's hopes are dashed when her father is reported missing and presumed dead. Miss Minchin is furious because she has received no reimbursements for Sara's special treatment. She confiscates all of Sara's presents and possessions, and keeps her on as a servant although her work will never repay her debts. She assigns Sara to work in the kitchen and sleep in a cold room in the attic. Sara refuses to believe her father is dead. She performs her chores but always checks new arrivals at the soldiers' hospital in hopes of finding him. Bertie enlisted in the army and works at the hospital, so he aids her search despite his misgivings. They dance and sing for the wounded men. In the servants' quarters, Sara comforts herself by furnishing her room with her imagination: a comfortable bed, a warm fire, plentiful food and books. Her friend Ram Dass observes her misery, and one night he secretly makes her room into the luxurious palace she has envisioned. In the meantime, Sara's father is brought to the hospital, but due to his amnesia is unidentified. He is scheduled to be transferred to another hospital the next day. That morning, Miss Minchin discovers Sara's new things and assumes they are stolen. She locks Sara in to await the police. Sara desperately escapes in order to check the hospital. She is stopped at every turn until she stumbles into Queen Victoria who is visiting the soldiers. The Queen allows Sara to search, and she finally finds her father. She hugs him and cries, but is devastated when he does not recognize her. Finally, she gets through to him and they are happily reunited.