movieId: 3563
title: The Crow: Salvation
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0132910/
ratingValue: 
directors: Bharat Nalluri
actors: Kirsten Dunst, William Atherton, Debbie Fan, Eric Mabius, Grant Shaud, David Jean Thomas, Gabrielle Woods, Jodi Lyn O'Keefe, David H. Stevens, Dale Midkiff

synopsis:
Alexander "Alex" Frederick Corvis is killed in Salt Lake City after being falsely accused of killing his girlfriend Lauren Randall. He is put to death in an electric chair three years later after lightning overloads the chair's energy supply, causing him to die in agony. After Alex is brought back to life by the Crow, he gains superhuman powers that will enable him to exact revenge for Lauren's passing. Following the crow, Alex discovers proof that a gang of dishonest police officers killed Lauren, including a scar on his arm that resembles the one he saw right before his execution. Later on, he meets Lauren's sister Erin, who thinks he is guilty but Alex assures her that he will prove his innocence. Later on in the trial, Alex discovers a witness who was bought off to provide false testimony and coerces him into admitting that Lauren was killed by four police officers. Detective Madden, Martin Toomey, Vincent Erlich, Stan Roberts, and Phillip Dutton were the five, although he was unaware of this. Alex starts his quest for retribution by killing Dutton and preventing him from raping two young girls. After confronting Erlich, he takes control of and destroys his vehicle, blowing up Erlich and the vehicle as well as a police helicopter. The list of the police officers Alex is pursuing is dropped, and Roberts and Toomey eventually locate it. After Lauren discovered the truth, Alex and Erin discover, using evidence discovered in Erlich's car, that Erin and Lauren's father, Nathan Randall, is involved with corrupt police officers and is partially to blame for her passing. When the truth is revealed to Erin, she flees from Nathan in horror. Erin tells Alex that she felt bad about killing Lauren because she told the police where to look for her, assuming they would just arrest Alex. Alex uses his abilities to demonstrate to Erin that Lauren repelled her assailants and that Erin ought to pardon herself. Upon returning home, she discovers that her father has been murdered. Later, Alex learns from his attorney, Peter Walsh, that Lauren had seen Roberts kill a man in the Key Club, which resulted in her death, and that one of Nathan's companies was exposed as a front for a drug smuggling operation. Erin is abducted and Walsh is killed by Madden and police captain John L. Book. Alex initiates a gunfight at the Key Club. In addition to killing the other police officers, he breaks off the ceiling and impales Roberts with a pipe. When Madden arrives, he attempts to murder Alex, but his bullet unintentionally breaks a gas pipe. Toomey is killed by the explosion. Alex notices an arm with the zigzag scar protruding from the debris as he exits the fire. Alex believes he has "fulfilled his duty" when the Crow departs. Walsh leaves a clue that leads Alex to believe that the 'King' is still alive. He goes to the police station to kill Book, but Book stabs him and he dies from his wounds since he lacks his abilities. Alex accepts his death in agony and starts to think he killed Lauren. Book takes Alex's body to a room where Walsh's body is depicted hanging and without an arm, and Erin's mouth is stitched shut and tied. As a pledge of love and honesty, Erin succeeds in dropping Lauren's locket, and the Crow drops it beside Alex. It brings Alex back to life, enabling him to free Erin and murder Madden and the secretary as Book pursues Erin. When Alex catches up to them, he reveals Book's arm, revealing the real zigzag scar that Alex saw during the attack the night Lauren was murdered. This exposes Book as the dishonest police officer and crime boss who ordered the murders of Lauren, the man Lauren saw killed, and Alex himself, ordering the police officers working for him to frame him for murder. Book is brought to the electric chair by Alex and Erin, who electrocute him until he is cremated in the chair. When Alex's soul is at last freed to be with Lauren again, Erin retains Lauren's necklace.