movieId: 5804
title: The Santa Clause 2
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0304669/
ratingValue: 
directors: Michael Lembeck
actors: Tim Allen, Elizabeth Mitchell, David Krumholtz, Eric Lloyd, Judge Reinhold, Wendy Crewson, Spencer Breslin, Liliana Mumy, Danielle Woodman, Art LaFleur

synopsis:
It is been eight years since Scott Calvin assumed the role of Santa Claus.[a] Scott is told that there is an additional clause, the "Mrs. Clause," by Head Elf Bernard and Curtis, the Keeper of the Handbook of Christmas. In order to avoid breaking the clause and losing his role as Santa forever, Scott is now under pressure to get married before the next Christmas Eve. Scott is informed concurrently by Abby the Elf that his teenage son Charlie has been placed on the naughty list because he damaged his school in an attempt to attract attention. To make amends with Charlie and find a wife, Scott needs to go back to his house. He mentions this when the Council of Legendary Figures-which includes the Sandman, Mother Nature, Father Time, Cupid, the Easter Bunny, and the Tooth Fairy-visits him. To Bernard's dismay, Curtis assists Scott in building a life-size unstrung Santa clone to make up for Santa's protracted absence. To ensure that the other elves will not question the double's artificial appearance, Bernard grudgingly complies with Santa's request and explains that Santa had a makeover. The approaching expiration of his contract causes Scott to go through a "de-Santafication process" that gradually transforms him back into Scott Calvin. The magic he can use to aid him is limited. Scott comes home to find his ex-wife Laura, her husband Neil, Charlie, and their daughter Lucy, age six. When Charlie vandalizes the lockers, he and Charlie get in trouble with school principal Carol Newman. Toy Santa takes the rules too literally at the North Pole and starts to believe that everyone is bad because they make little mistakes. Consequently, Toy Santa uses his own giant toy soldiers to seize control of the North Pole and tells the Elves about his scheme to provide lumps of coal to the entire world. After Bernard reveals Toy Santa's deceit, Toy Santa puts him under house arrest. Following several unsuccessful dates, Scott starts to develop feelings for Carol. He rides with her in a horse-drawn sleigh to the faculty Christmas party, where she admits that she once believed in Santa before her parents made her stop after she got into arguments with kids who told her he was not real. By giving everyone their childhood dream presents, Scott injects some Christmas magic into the otherwise dreary celebration. Carol is won over by his special presentation, and he uses his remaining magic to kiss her beneath the mistletoe. She dismisses Scott after he tries to explain that he is Santa because she thinks he is making fun of her early years. Charlie later expresses his displeasure at Scott dating his principal, admitting that it is difficult for him because Scott is never present like other fathers and that he feels pressured to keep his father's identity as Santa a secret. After Lucy persuades Charlie not to be angry with him, Charlie tells Carol that Scott is Santa by displaying the magical snow globe he was given during Scott's first metamorphosis. In order to inform Scott of Toy Santa's scheme, Curtis flies in. Scott, however, has exhausted his magic in courting Carol and is unable to go back to the North Pole. Scott and Curtis escape with the Tooth Fairy's assistance, but Toy Santa discovers them and restrains them. Charlie and Carol release them by calling upon the Tooth Fairy to transport them to the North Pole. On the back of a boisterous reindeer-in-training named Chet, Scott pursues Toy Santa, who has already departed with the sleigh, and the two of them crash back into the village. The toy soldiers are overthrown in a snowball battle led by Carol, Bernard, Charlie, and Curtis and an army of elves. Scott and Carol are married in a ceremony, Scott turns back into Santa and Carol into Mrs. Claus, Toy Santa is vanquished and reduced to six inches, and Christmas continues as usual. Lucy is informed that Scott is Santa Claus by Scott and Charlie, who also pledge to keep his secret.