movieId: 2334
title: The Siege
year: 1998
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0133952/
ratingValue: 
directors: Edward Zwick
actors: Denzel Washington, Annette Bening, Bruce Willis, Tony Shalhoub, Sami Bouajila, Ahmed Ben Larby, Mosleh Mohamed, Lianna Pai, Mark Valley, Jack Gwaltney

synopsis:
Bombing of a United States Army barracks in Saudi Arabia leading to both civilian and military American casualties. The U.S. blames a group led by Sheikh Ahmed Bin Talal (Ahmed Ben Larby) who is subsequently kidnapped and held under the watch of Major General William Devereaux (Bruce Willis). Back in the US, FBI Special Agent Anthony Hubbard (Denzel Washington) and his Lebanese American partner Frank Haddad (Tony Shalhoub) are told of a hijacked bus, fully loaded with passengers and containing an apparent explosive device. The bomb turns out to be a paint bomb and the terrorists manage to escape. The FBI receives warnings to release Sheikh Ahmed Bin Talal, stating that the paint bomb is only a warning and the next time there would be real casualties.
Hubbard's team includes FBI Agent Tina Osu (Lianna Pai), FBI Agent Mike Johanssen (Mark Valley). FBI Agent Danny Sussman (David Proval) and FBI Agent Floyd Rose (Lance Reddick). Hubbard eventually comes into conflict with CIA officer Elise Kraft (Annette Bening). Kraft reaches the warehouse, where the bus is being kept and demands access. But Kraft does not approach the FBI through official channels. Hubbard asks Kraft to leave the warehouse and to only approach with a memo from her office for inter-agency cooperation. Hubbard takes a terrorist suspect into custody who was trying to smuggle cash into the country. Hubbard releases the suspect to see whom he meets. But the suspect discovers the FBI team tailing him and tries to run away before he is pushed into a red van and driven away.
Hubbard and his team track the suspect to a CIA safe house, where he was being interrogated by Kraft. Hubbard arrests Kraft for interfering in a domestic FBI investigation. Later, another terrorist threat is made and a Metropolitan Transportation Authority bus is attacked in a suicide bombing, killing 25 people. Kraft had told Hubbard that the terrorists did not want to negotiate but were only waiting for the media and the cameras, before blowing up the bus. Kraft reveals that there is a terrorist cell operating in Brooklyn and asks Hubbard if there has been a demand from the terrorists yet. From the fingerprints in the blown-up bus, they pick the prints that matches a known terrorist Ali Waziri, who entered the US 3 days ago. Hubbard tracks down the visa application of Ali Waziri to find that he entered the US on a student visa.
When the FBI captures a man named Samir Nazhde (Sami Bouajila), he admits to signing the visa application of Ali Waziri in the course of signing many applications for student visas in his job as a lecturer. However, Kraft insists that Samir is not a terrorist and that his continued freedom is vital to the investigation. Hubbard and his team track down and eliminate the remaining elements of the terrorist cell, and initially believe the threat is over. However, the terrorist incidents escalate with the bombing of a crowded theater and hostage-situation at an elementary school, and culminate in the destruction of One Federal Plaza, the location of the FBI's New York City field office, with over 600 casualties. In spite of objections, the President declares martial law and the 101st Airborne Division, under Devereaux, occupies and seals off Brooklyn in an effort to find the remaining terrorist cells. Subsequently all young males of Arab descent, including Haddad's son Frank, Jr., are rounded up and detained in Yankee Stadium. Haddad resigns in anger. New Yorkers stage violent demonstrations against the army and the racial profiling of the Arabs and the Army fights to maintain control. There are reports of Army killings. Hubbard and Kraft, now going by the name Sharon Bridger, continue their investigation and capture a suspect, Tariq Husseini (Amro Salama). Devereaux kills Husseini in the course of the interrogation. Afterward, Bridger tells Hubbard that Husseini knew nothing of value because of the principle of compartmentalized information. Sickened, she finally tells Hubbard what she knows. It is revealed that she herself provided training and support to militants opposed to Saddam Hussein's regime. After the funding was cut, she took pity on the few of them who had not yet been slaughtered by Hussein's forces and arranged for them to escape to the United States, ultimately leading to the present situation as they turn their bomb making and covert skills on the country that now holds their leader. It was also revealed that the Sheikh was apprehended by Devereaux without the government's approval. She and Hubbard compel Samir to arrange a meeting with the final terrorist cell. Hubbard convinces Haddad that he needs his help, and Haddad returns to the FBI. A multi-ethnic peace march demonstrates against the occupation of Brooklyn. As the march is getting under way Hubbard and Haddad arrive at the meeting place, but Bridger and Samir have already left. Samir reveals to Bridger that he constitutes the final cell while in another sense he says, "there will never be a last cell." He straps a bomb to his body which he intends to detonate among the marchers. Hubbard and Haddad arrive in time to stop him leaving but Samir shoots Bridger in the stomach as she struggles to stop him. Hubbard kills Samir but despite their best efforts he and Haddad can only watch as Bridger bleeds to death after managing to recite certain lines of the second half of the Lord's Prayer and concluding with "Inshallah" - the Arabic phrase "God Willing". Hubbard, Haddad, and other FBI agents, raid Devereaux's headquarters to arrest him for the torture and murder of Husseini. Deveraux insists that under the War Powers Resolution the authority vested in him by the President supersedes that of the court which issued the arrest warrant. He then commands his soldiers to aim their guns at the agents, resulting in a Mexican standoff. Hubbard reminds Devereaux that the civil liberties and human rights which he took from Husseini are what all his predecessors have fought and died for. Devereaux finally submits and is arrested. Martial law ends and the detainees are freed, including Haddad's son.