movieId: 3287
title: The Tigger Movie
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0220099/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jun Falkenstein
actors: Jim Cummings, Nikita Hopkins, Ken Sansom, John Fiedler, Peter Cullen, Andre Stojka, Kath Soucie, Tom Attenborough, John Hurt

synopsis:
Tigger is sick of hearing that Pooh (Jim Cummings) is Christopher's best friend. He wants the story to be about him. Tigger (Jim Cummings) searches through the Hundred Acre Wood for somebody to bounce with him, but all of his friends are too busy getting ready for the coming winter. Pooh is busy counting all the honey pots to make sure that he has enough for the winter. Tigger signs off every visit with TTFN or Ta-Ta For Now.
Tigger visits Piglet who is worried that he does not have enough firewood for the winter. Tigger starts burning Piglet's furniture in the fireplace.
Kanga (Kath Soucie) was busy with her house chores. While he searches for a playmate, Tigger accidentally destroys Eeyore's (Peter Cullen) house with a boulder. All the friends gather to remove the boulder, so Eeyore can rebuild the house. Tigger arrives and says that he can move the boulder with his bouncing. Tigger coils and unleashes himself at the boulder, which ends up moving the boulder, along with the entire contraption that Rabbit had built to move it.
Tigger wrecks the complex pulley system that Rabbit (Ken Sansom) has rigged up to remove the boulder and sends his friends flying into a mud puddle. Rabbit is furious at Tigger for destroying his Rock Remover, and the rest of Tigger's friends admit they're not quite as bouncy as he is because they aren't Tiggers. Tigger sadly wanders off on his own, wishing there was somebody else like him. Roo (Nikita Hopkins), who wants to play with Tigger, catches up to him and asks if Tigger has a Tigger family he could bounce with. Tigger becomes fascinated by the concept and decides to search for his family, hoping to finally be within a similar company. The two go to visit Owl (Andre Stojka) for advice on finding Tigger's family. Owl shows them portraits of his own family and mentions the concept of family trees. Tigger accidentally knocks the portraits over. When he quickly hangs them back up, all of owl's ancestors appear to be perched on a single tree. Tigger concludes that his family tree must be a real tree and he and Roo go searching for it. Meanwhile, Rabbit and Pooh remake Eeyore's home, but Eeyore finds it drafty, lopsided, cramped and believes that it might leak. While searching for his family tree, Tigger bounces through Eeyore's patch and bounces on his newly built home, thus destroying it.
Pooh, Piglet and Eeyore realize that Tigger is looking for his family tree and go into the woods to find it. Eeyore finds a family of striped frogs in the pond and mistakes that for Tigger's family. The frogs are bouncy and have stripes, but none of them are willing to come with Pooh to meet Tigger. Pooh concludes that these are not the right kind of Tiggers as he cannot remember Tigger making any sort of croaking sounds. After searching the wood without turning up any giant, Tigger-striped trees, Tigger and Roo go back to Tigger's house to search for clues to his family's whereabouts. They find a heart-shaped locket that Tigger hopes will contain a picture of his family, but it is empty. Roo suggests that Tigger try writing a letter to his family, which Tigger does. During the letter writing, Tigger teaches Roo the awesome Whoop-De-Dooper-Loop-De-Looper-Alley-Ooper Bounce. Tigger was skeptical as only real Tigger know how to perform the bounce, and he felt Roo was too short and lacking in the perpendicular. Tigger says that there are several rules regarding bouncing such as, the bounce area should be well lit, never bounce near an open flame, never bounce right after eating or one can get tail cramps, and so on.
Tigger lets the wind carry the letter away with hopes that it will reach his family but receives no response after days of waiting and begins to lose hope. Tigger realizes that being the only Tigger in the world is not as wonderful as it sounded. When Tigger's letter gets no response, Roo gathers Tigger's friends together to write him a letter. Everyone contributes a bit of friendly advice, and they sign it "your family." Tigger is overjoyed to receive the letter and the prospect of having hundreds and thousands of Tiggers like him. But "reading between the lines", he misinterprets the letter and announces that his whole family is coming to visit him tomorrow. Tigger gets very excited and builds an entire extension to his home to house his family members. Tigger organizes a cake and decorates his house to have a party with his family. Tigger's friends don't have the heart to tell Tigger that the letter is from them, so they disguise themselves as Tiggers and attend his family reunion. Rabbit does not join in, but, rather, berates them for not getting ready for the approaching winter storm and slams off. Tigger is completely taken in by the costumes until Roo attempts Tigger's complex Whoop-De-Dooper-Loop-De-Looper-Alley-Ooper Bounce, crashes into the closet and knocks his mask off. Believing that his friends are mocking him, Tigger goes out in a fierce snowstorm to search for his family after a final "TTFE, Ta-Ta For Ever!!" Tigger's friends form an expedition to find him and convince Rabbit to lead them. Pooh says that Tigger is always helping his friends when they need him, and he lights up the room with his entry. Pooh says that without Rabbit the group is not clever enough to find Tigger in a raging storm. Tigger eventually finds an immense tree that the snow has whitened with stripes, convincing him that it is the family tree he had sought, but he is saddened to find no one there.
They find Tigger sitting in a large tree with patches of snow on the trunk that resemble stripes. Rabbit insists that Tigger come home, but Tigger refuses to leave his "family tree" until his Tigger family returns. They argue and Tigger's shouting causes an avalanche. Tigger bounces all of his friends to safety in the tree branches but is swept away by the snow himself. Roo performs a perfect Whoop-De-Dooper-Loop-De-Looper-Alley-Ooper Bounce and rescues Tigger. When the avalanche subsides, Tigger realizes he has lost the letter from his family. All his friends each recite their parts of the letter from memory and Tigger finally sees that they are his real family. He throws a new family reunion party with presents for everyone, including a beautiful new home for Eeyore. Roo receives the heart-shaped locket and Christopher Robin (Tom Attenborough) takes a picture of Roo, Tigger, and the rest of their family to go in it.