movieId: 1408
title: The Last of the Mohicans
year: 1992
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0104691/
ratingValue: 
directors: Michael Mann
actors: Daniel Day-Lewis, Madeleine Stowe, Russell Means, Eric Schweig, Jodhi May, Steven Waddington, Wes Studi, Maurice Roëves, Patrice Chéreau, Edward Blatchford

synopsis:
During the French and Indian War in 1757, Mohican Chingachgook ( Russell Means ) with his son Uncas ( Eric Schweig ) and adopted white son Nathaniel "Hawkeye" ( Daniel Day-Lewis ), visit the Cameron frontier household. Friend Jack Winthrop ( Edward Blatchford ) tells them he is gathering militia for the British army. He addresses the Mohican tribesmen using the hospitality of Chingachgook & tries to recruit the Mohicans in favor of the British. He says France is an enemy of the Mohicans & hence it's in their interest to side with the British. Mohicans want to fight but are afraid that their homes will be attacked when they are away. General Webb agrees to grant the militia leave if their homes are attacked, in return for their reinforcement of Colonel Edmund Munro ( Maurice Roëves ) at Fort William Henry. Newly arrived Major Duncan Heyward ( Steven Waddington and the Huron guide Magua ( Wes Studi ) are tasked with escorting Munro's daughters, Cora ( Madeleine Stowe ) and Alice ( Jodhi May ), from Albany to Fort William Henry. Duncan wishes to marry Cora, but she feels only friendship for him. Magua leads the group into an ambush by his Huron party, but Hawkeye, Uncas and Chingachgook save Duncan, Cora and Alice and decide to escort them to the fort. Magua manages to escape, slipping away somewhat mysteriously when Hawkeye takes aim at him. Along the way the Cameron home is found razed, and its occupants murdered, most likely by a war party as nothing has been stolen. The group arrives at the fort, which is under siege by the French, but sneak in. Munro is surprised at his daughters' arrival because he sent a letter ordering them to stay where they are and requesting reinforcements. The courier was intercepted by Magua. The fort can only hold for three more days; out on the no-man's land the French are rapidly digging trenches that will bring their mortar cannons within firing range. A messenger is sent to General Webb for help. As the runner takes off into the nearby forest, Hawkeye, who is an expert shot, and his brother, take up sniper's positions, helping the runner get through the woods alive and off to his destination. While making their way to Fort Henry, Cora and Hawkeye have become attracted to one other, and so when Munro and Hawkeye disagree about the attack on the Cameron home, a jealous Duncan publicly claims that it was done by mere thieves and not as a French and Huron joint attack of terror toward colonial settlers. Duncan privately confesses to Munro afterwards that Hawkeye was correct, but Munro believes that British interests and the defense of the fort are more important and refuses to let Jack and the militia leave to defend their homes and families. Cora is disgusted by Duncan for lying and tells him that she will not marry him. Hawkeye secretly helps the militia escape, despite Munro's threats, and is later arrested for sedition and sentenced to hang despite Cora's pleas. The French general, Montcalm ( Patrice Chéreau ) generously offers all in the fort safe passage to Albany if they surrender and vow to never fight in North America again. Munro reluctantly accepts after Montcalm shows Webb's intercepted message, showing that no aid is forthcoming. Magua berates Montcalm for making peace, revealing that his village was destroyed, and his children killed by Munro's troops, assisted by the Mohawk; though he regained his freedom from Mohawk captivity, his wife remarried believing he was dead. Montcalm, though intending to honor the terms, tacitly encourages Magua to deal with the British. The retreating British soldiers and their families are ambushed by Magua's men. Magua cuts out Munro's heart from his body, but not before promising to kill Munro's daughters to extinguish his line. Hawkeye, Cora, Alice, Uncas, Chingachgook, Duncan and a few others flee in canoes across Lake George and down a river to a cave behind a waterfall, but Magua and his men are soon upon them. For their safety, Hawkeye urges Cora and Alice to submit if captured and promises he will find them later, then leaps with his father and brother down the waterfall. Magua takes Duncan and the two sisters to a Huron village. Hawkeye and his family easily track them through the mountains, finding a few clues left by Cora. Magua negotiates his captives' fate with the village's sachem (their chief) when they are interrupted by the arrival of an unarmed Hawkeye, who is clubbed and slashed but refuses to fight back. With Duncan translating in French, Hawkeye convinces the chief that Magua is acting for his own interests like the colonial powers, rather than for the good of the tribe. The chief decides that Cora is to be burned alive to atone for Magua's children, gives Alice to replace Magua's wife so that both bloodlines can continue and orders Duncan's return to the British to placate them. Magua has also stated that he intends to kill Munro's children. Hawkeye is released in recognition of his bravery but pleads to take Cora's place. Duncan deliberately mistranslates, sacrificing himself instead so Hawkeye and Cora can escape, whilst Magua curses the sachem and departs with Alice and his men. From a safe distance, Hawkeye mercifully shoots Duncan in the heart as he is burned alive. Uncas, who had cared for Alice throughout, races ahead to intercept Magua's band, killing several warriors before engaging Magua. Magua, the more skilled combatant, brutally kills him, then drops his body off the cliff. Rather than join Magua, Alice follows Uncas by jumping to her death. Spotting Uncas' untimely death, Hawkeye and Chingachgook set upon the Hurons; Hawkeye covers his father by taking out Magua's rearguard men and Chingachgook kills Magua, avenging his son. After a ritual for Uncas with Cora and Hawkeye, Chingachgook announces that he is the last of the Mohicans.