movieId: 6662
title: The Pink Panther
year: 1963
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0057413/
ratingValue: 
directors: Blake Edwards
actors: David Niven, Peter Sellers, Robert Wagner, Capucine, Brenda de Banzie, Colin Gordon, John Le Mesurier, James Lanphier, Guy Thomajan, Michael Trubshawe

synopsis:
As a child, Princess Dala receives a gift from her father, the Shah of Lugash--"the Pink Panther," the largest diamond in the world. This huge pink gem has an unusual flaw: looking deeply into the stone, one perceives a tiny discoloration resembling a leaping panther. Twenty years later, Dala has been forced into exile following her father's death and the subsequent military takeover of her country. The new government declares her precious diamond the property of the people and petitions the World Court to determine ownership. However, Dala refuses to relinquish it. Noted jewel thief Phantom has struck again in Rome and escaped with half a million dollars in jewels. In Paris, police inspector Jacques Clouseau is assigned to apprehend the Phantom. Clouseau knows that Phantom is working with a woman, who manages to escape when the police intercept her meeting with The Phantom. Clouseau does not know that the woman is his wife, Simone. Simone ( Capucine ) is the paramour of Charles and helper in the Phantom's crimes and she has become rich by acting as a fence for the Phantom under the nose of her amorous but oblivious husband. Clouseau wonders how Simone can afford expensive items such as a luxurious mink coat on a police officer's salary. Several years later, Dala ( Claudia Cardinale ) relaxes on holiday at an exclusive ski resort in Cortina D'Ampezzo. Also staying is a noted English playboy, Sir Charles Lytton ( David Niven ) who leads a secret life as a jewel thief called "The Phantom" and has his eyes on the Pink Panther. The famed diamond is insured for $0.5 million. His unwitting American playboy nephew George ( Robert Wagner ) follows his uncle to the resort, also hoping to steal the jewel and blame it on the Phantom. George poses as a recent college graduate about to enter the Peace Corps so his uncle continues to support his lavish lifestyle. In reality, George left the US as he was $40,000 in debt. Charles orchestrates the kidnapping of Dala's dog and then appears at the right time to be the savior and become a hero. As such, he gains a dinner invitation from Dala and starts to get close to her. He manages to get Dala to come to his hotel room and seduces her. Charles tempts Dala by calling her the virgin queen, as that is the image that she has cultivated for herself in the media. Charles intrigues Dala enough to get her to agree to drinking Champagne, against her religious principles. When Dala is slightly drunk, Charles kisses her. The same night Charles realizes that George has also come over from the US and staying in his room. On the Phantom's trail is French police inspector Jacques Clouseau ( Peter Sellers ) of the Sûreté. Clouseau arrives at the resort with Simone. Simone and Charles have booked their rooms next to each other. Simone goes to Charles' room at night but ends up kissing George in the dark. To cover her real purpose, Simone pretends that she had come in to meet George. Charles believes George is naive and studious. He asks Simone to keep George out of trouble and away from Dala, lest he ruins their careful plans. Meanwhile George takes his turn at seducing Dala. Clouseau is so clueless and clumsy that while several theft attempts are made at a fancy-dress party, he looks everywhere but the right place. Meanwhile, Simone dodges her husband (who is always trying to have sex with her) by giving him random chores to perform, while trying to avoid George who has grown enamored of her and aid Charles, who has grown enamored of Dala and is ambivalent about carrying out the theft. The night before their departure, George accidentally learns of his uncle's criminal activities. Jack finds out that the accomplice who kidnapped Dala's dog works for Charles and is convinced that Charles and Phantom are one and the same. Dala tells Jack that there is a fancy-dress party the same night and is sure that Charles will attend the party in disguise and try to steal the diamond. During a costume party, Sir Charles and his nephew attempt to steal the diamond, only to find the jewel already missing from the safe. In spite of himself, the buffoonish inspector discovers the two in the act. They escape during the confusion of the evening's climactic fireworks display, resulting in a car chase throughout the town streets. Despite all odds, Sir Charles and his accomplice George are captured when all the vehicles collide with one another. Later, Simone informs Dala that Charles wished to call off the theft and asks her to help in his defense. Dala then reveals that it was she herself who stole the diamond to avoid deportation back to Lugash. However, the Princess is also smitten with Sir Charles and has a plan to save him from prison. At the trial, Charles' and George's convictions seem inevitable when the defense calls as their lone witness a surprised Clouseau. The barrister asks a series of questions that suggest Clouseau himself could be the Phantom. An unnerved Clouseau pulls out his handkerchief-from which drops the jewel, promptly rendering him unconscious from shock. As Clouseau is driven away to prison, he is mobbed by a throng of enamored women. Watching from a distance, a regretful Simone expresses fears he will rot in prison. Sir Charles reassures her that when the Phantom strikes again, Clouseau will be exonerated. Sir Charles, Simone, and George drive away to continue their life of crime as Dala leaves to return to her country. Meanwhile, in the police car, the officers express their envy that Clouseau is now the object of affection of young women everywhere. As they ask him with obvious admiration how he committed so many robberies, Clouseau's mood gradually changes: "Well, you know . . . it wasn't easy." Pink Panther as a traffic warden is run over by the car carrying Clouseau and attempting to chase after it. He pulls himself together.