movieId: 2739
title: The Color Purple
year: 1985
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0088939/
ratingValue: 
directors: Steven Spielberg
actors: Danny Glover, Whoopi Goldberg, Margaret Avery, Oprah Winfrey, Willard E. Pugh, Akosua Busia, Desreta Jackson, Adolph Caesar, Rae Dawn Chong, Dana Ivey

synopsis:
In the winter of 1909 Georgia, a 14-year-old African American girl named Celie (Desreta Jackson) gives birth to a daughter, whom she names Olivia, as her younger sister, Nettie (Akosua Busia), acts as midwife. Since the baby was conceived through incest, Celie's father, Pa (Leonard Jackson), seizes the infant and warns his daughter to keep the pregnancy a secret. Celie had previously conceived another child through incest, a son named Adam, but he was also removed from her care. Sometime later, a prominent local farmer named Albert Johnson (Danny Glover) asks Pa's permission to marry young Nettie. Refusing, the old man offers Celie instead, and Albert takes the girl to his plantation. There, she calls him "Mister," acts as a domestic servant, and endures his physical abuse. In the spring of 1910, Celie believes she recognizes her seven-month-old daughter, Olivia, in town. She follows Corrine (Susan Beaubian), the baby's supposed mother, to learn the child was adopted by Reverend Samuel. However, Celie remains uncertain whether the child is her own. Back at the farm, Celie is visited by Nettie, who escaped Pa. Celie warns Nettie to leave the farm before Albert has his way with her, but the sisters are inseparable, and Nettie teaches Celie to read. One day, Albert attempts to rape Nettie on her route to school. When she retaliates, Albert violently forces her to leave, and she and Celie are separated yet again. Nettie promises to write to her sister. Sometime later, Albert receives a letter announcing the imminent arrival of his former lover, a diva named Shug Avery (Margaret Avery). Although Celie hopes for mail from Nettie, Albert declares she will never see letters from her sister. Years pass, and the adult Celie (now played by Whoopi Goldberg) improves her reading to escape Albert's brutality. In the summer of 1916, Albert meets his son Harpo's (Willard Pugh) pregnant fiance, Sofia (Oprah Winfrey). Although he forbids the marriage, the two wed shortly after the birth of their first child. When the couple moves to the Johnson farm, both Albert and Celie advise young Harpo to beat the brazen girl into submission. Undaunted, Sofia punches Harpo in the eye and vows to fight for her dignity to Celie when she finds out that she'd advised Harpo to beat her. Although Harpo and Sofia have more children over the next few years, their brawls continue and Sofia leaves with their offspring. One day, during a rainstorm, Albert returns home with an ailing Shug Avery and Celie is smitten by the sickly, yet unabashed, starlet. Albert tries to make breakfast for Shug but fails, burning most of it. Celie takes up the task and steadily gains Shug's trust and admiration. Later, Celie bathes Shug and the woman cries about the loss of her pastor father's affection. Meanwhile, Albert's father, Old Mister Johnson (Adolph Ceasar), arrives unexpectedly and renounces his son's romance with the free-spirited, promiscuous Shug. Celie secretly spits in his lemonade. In the summer 1922, Albert, Harpo, and their musician friend, Swain (Laurence Fishburne), build a makeshift, lakeside saloon called "Harpo's" for Shug to reestablish her singing career. There, crowds defy Prohibition to indulge in alcohol and Shug's seductive spectacles. Celie, detested by the other women in the juke joint, is mesmerized one night by a suggestive song called "Miss Celie's Blues" that Shug dedicates to her personally. Just then, Harpo's estranged wife, Sofia, arrives with a gentleman friend, and Harpo coaxes her onto the dance floor. However, Harpo's latest lover, Squeak (Rae Dawn Chong), is displeased by the reunion and slaps Sofia. After returning home from the ensuing brawl, Celie dresses in Shug's cocktail dress and smiles for the first time. However, her joy dissipates when Shug announces her intention to leave the Johnson farm. As Shug inquires about Celie's relationship with Albert, the girl reveals he has never cared about her happiness, and he beats her when Shug is not around. Declaring her love for the girl, Shug says Celie is still a virgin and kisses her. In the coming days, Shug visits her preacher father and he ignores her. When Shug leaves for Memphis, Tennessee, Celie plans to escape, but Albert interferes. One day in town the mayor's wife, Miss Millie, makes a spectacle of condescendingly fawning over Sofia's children and casually asks Sofia if she'd like to work as a maid. Sofia replies "Hell no" and draws the ire of the Mayor himself, who slaps her. Sofia retaliates by hitting the man and knocking him to the ground and shouting for her companions to take her children from the scene. A police officer shows up and hits Sofia with his Billy club, permanently disfiguring her face. Eight years later, in the spring of 1930, a gray-haired and physically and emotionally defeated Sofia is released from prison, only to become Miss Millie's maid since she has no money or job. On Christmas day later that year, Miss Millie drives Sofia to reunite for the day with her three estranged children and extended family, including Harpo. Sofia had been teaching Millie to drive but Millie is suddenly unable to reverse the car properly and drive home herself. She becomes increasingly terrified and hysterical when the men of the household try to help her. Sofia steps in and agrees to help Millie get home, missing her visit with her family. During Easter weekend of 1935, Shug returns to the Johnson farm with her new, wealthy husband, named Grady (Bennet Gilroy). Albert and Celie are both highly disappointed at Shug's newfound romance but agree to let them stay anyway. As Albert and Grady drunkenly discuss their romantic rivalry, Shug checks the mail and finds a letter from Celie's sister, Nettie, who is now living in Africa. The letter confirms that Celie's two children, Olivia and Adam, were adopted by Corrine, the lady Celie saw in town, and her husband, Reverend Samuel. Nettie joined the missionaries on their journey to Africa as the children's nanny. Shug and Celie wait until Grady and Albert go out drinking and quickly search the house and find Nettie's previous letters hidden under the floorboards. They put them in order according to the postmark and Celie reads them all, revealing a fantastic story about her sister's life in Africa, and the violence of white colonists. However, Nettie promises to return with the children as soon as they meet the approval of U.S. immigration. Sometime later when Celie doesn't hear Albert yelling for her to shave him, he finds her and hits her. A silently enraged Celie prepares to murder him by cutting his throat with the straight razor, but Shug comes to the rescue. Simultaneously in Africa, Olivia and Adam are initiated into a native tribe where their cheeks are sliced and scarred with a ceremonial knife. Back in Georgia at Easter dinner, Shug announces she is bringing Celie to Memphis. When Albert objects, Celie defies her husband, and Sofia, who has returned home from her servitude to Miss Millie, regains her impetuous nature. Celie lectures Albert on his lack of gratitude for her and about how she knows her children are alive and well with Nettie. After holding a knife to Albert's throat, Celie leaves the farm, cursing Albert and vowing he will suffer for his abuse and offenses. In the fall of 1937, Albert's farm is decrepit, his house is dilapidated and his face unshaven since Celie walked out on him. His father shows up and suggests that his son try to find another young woman to take Celie's place, but Albert firmly makes him leave. Celie herself has set up a successful tailoring shop, selling pants that she can fit to anyone. She spies Albert out in the street and the two exchange a glance and Albert walks on. Albert has also become a regular at Harpo's juke joint where his son and Sofia have reconciled. That winter, Celie returns for Pa's funeral. Learning that the man was really her stepfather, Celie is relieved that her children are exempted from an incestuous lineage, and she inherits the flourishing homestead that once belonged to her biological father. She joyously takes possession of it from her stepfather's last, young wife, who seems more than happy to part with it. Sometime later, Celie and Shug walk through the field of purple flowers surrounding the house and Shug declares that God is offended when people fail to notice the divine glory of color. Inspired by natural beauty, Shug resumes singing at Harpo's saloon one Sunday. However, Shug's pastor father hears his daughter's song at his nearby parish and orders the chorus to sing louder and drown out Shug's voice. Defying her father's scorn, Shug sings along with the gospel and the saloon patrons, including Celie and Sofia, follow her to the church. There, Shug bellows the Christian verse to her estranged father and they embrace. Meanwhile, back at the Johnson farm, Albert receives a letter addressed to Celie from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. In an attempt to redeem himself, Albert retrieves his hidden savings of cash, goes to the immigration bureau, and secures the safe return of Celie's family. Sometime later in 1938, Celie sees strangers on the horizon of her purple flower field and realizes it is Nettie, as well as Adam and Olivia and Adam's wife. Watching the joyful reunion from Celie's porch, Shug notices Albert in the distance and recognizes his contribution to Celie's happiness. The film ends with Celie and Nettie together in the field, playing the Red Hands game they did as teenagers and reunited forever.