movieId: 3586
title: The Idolmaker
year: 1980
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0080913/
ratingValue: 
directors: Taylor Hackford
actors: Ray Sharkey, Tovah Feldshuh, Peter Gallagher, Paul Land, Joe Pantoliano, Maureen McCormick, John Aprea, Richard Bright, Olympia Dukakis, Steve Peck

synopsis:
In 1959 New York City, waiter and aspiring musician Vince Vacarri (Ray Sharkey), is told by his friend, Gino Pilato (Joe Pantollano), that they have a time slot at a recording studio. Vince immediately leaves the family restaurant for the studio, where he fights with its gangster owner. Later, Vince tells his mother (Olympia Dukakis) he does not have the charisma to be a singer, then watches his friend, Tommy Dee (Paul Land), play saxophone at a New Jersey nightclub. Afterward, Vince convinces Tommy that he is destined to be a headline act. In time, Vince coaches Tommy to be a singer, and they produce a record. In order to promote Tommy, Vince reluctantly meets with his father, Mr. Vacarri, to ask for a loan. At the meeting, Vince criticizes his father (Steven Apostlee Peck) for being selfish, abandoning the family, and only caring about money and women. When Mr. Vacarri offers his son $10,000 to start a record company, Vince takes the loan but tells his father that his past transgressions are not forgiven. Vince presses Tommy's records, and the singer successfully performs his song on disc jockey Walt Bennett's (Kenneth O'Brien) show. Afterward, Walt pretends Tommy's song is mediocre until Vince slips Walt some money, and Walt agrees to put Tommy's record in rotation on the radio. Later, Vince presents Teen Scene magazine editor Brenda Roberts (Tovah Feldshuh) with a bouquet of flowers and convinces her to feature Tommy on the magazine's cover. Sometime later, Tommy performs on the television show Saturday Night Bandstand ignoring the rehearsed choreography and spontaneously interacting with the audience. The female audience swoons over Tommy's singing. Soon, the magazine needs extra staff to handle all of Tommy's fan mail. With his newfound success, Vince buys his mother a designer-decorated mansion. When Vince and Brenda celebrate at the family restaurant, he has too much to drink, yells at a clumsy waiter, and complains that Tommy will not follow his advice to study acting. Brenda says that she is worried about him, but Vince becomes hostile and she walks out. Sometime later, Vince gives his father a check to repay part of the loan, and Mr. Vacarri warns him to remain humble and protect his investment. He advises his son to draw up a contract with Tommy and recruit more clients. Later, Vince meets with Phil Delano, an agent from I.A.A., a large talent agency, and he agrees to find Tommy a movie role. Meanwhile, Vince follows his father's advice and decides to transform the busboy, Guido (Peter Gallagher), at the family restaurant into a singer named "Caesare." Tommy becomes jealous when he sees Vince grooming Caesare instead of joining him on tour, but Vince calms him down. Later, when Vince thinks Caesare is ready, he arranges a tryout for his protege at a small club. In the dressing room, Tommy encourages Caesare to smoke to calm his nerves but it sickens him. On stage, Caesare is a bundle of nerves and runs off before finishing the first song. As Caesare vomits in the alley, Vince gives him a pep talk and promises that he will not let him fail. After Caesare heads home, Vince and Brenda share a cab. When she tries to comfort Vince, they fight but end up making love. Afterward, Vince tries a new strategy to market Caesare, splashing Caesare's photograph all over town. As Vince continues to rehearse Caesare, Tommy feels abandoned and he also wants the part in a television series that Vince refused. As Tommy leaves, he threatens to fire Vince. At Caesare's next concert, girls attack him on stage, ripping his clothing. Once more security is added, Caesare finishes his performance and is a big hit. Instead of touring, Vince decides it would be more effective for Caesare to go into seclusion. After five months, Caesare becomes restless and borrows Gino's car for the night. With two bottles of wine and flowers, Caesare spends the evening with Teen Scene reporter Ellen Fields (Maureen McCormick). On the way home, a policeman gives Caesare a ticket for running a red light. Before word of Caesare's misdeed leaks to the press, Vince gives the officer concert tickets and threatens to drop Caesare as an act. Meanwhile, Vince reveals Ellen's relationship with Caesare, but Brenda is reluctant to fire Ellen, her best reporter. When Vince hands her a report, showing Ellen has had similar past relationships, Brenda warns that Caesare will be upset with Ellen gone. However, Vince claims Caesare will not have time to sulk because he will be on tour, and Teen Scene can cover the story exclusively. The tour begins in Memphis, Tennessee, in Elvis country, but Vince is on edge. He yells at Gino for noticing that the local press has buried Caesare's concert news in its pages. In the theater, Brenda points out that Vince is manipulative and his behavior has turned ugly. She warns him in the future, she will cover his acts without special favors. Meanwhile, Caesare wins over the Memphis audience but, afterward, he and Vince fight about who should get credit for the success. Caesare claims he proved himself on stage while Vince argues that Caesare is nothing without his support. Caesare leaves town, deciding to switch management, and signs with Phil Delano. Gino is asked to join the new team but he remains loyal to Vince, who urges Gino to help Caesare. Vince goes home and wanders through the old neighborhood. Nothing seems to matter until his mother gives him a pep talk to get back to work. Months later, Vince invites Brenda to see a new act, but she declines. On concert night, Brenda sneaks into the club and sees Vince on stage singing his own material. Vince catches Brenda's eye, and she nods her approval.