movieId: 6158
title: The Jungle Book 2
year: 2003
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0283426/
ratingValue: 
directors: Steve Trenbirth
actors: John Goodman, Haley Joel Osment, Mae Whitman, Connor Funk, Bob Joles, Tony Jay, John Rhys-Davies, Jim Cummings, Phil Collins

synopsis:
The village leader, who has a wife named Messua and a son named Ranjan, adopted Mowgli, who now lives in the "Man-Village" with Shanti, the girl who enticed him to the village. But Mowgli almost takes the other kids from the village into the jungle because he wants to go back to the thrilling life there. The village chief punishes Mowgli for his disobedience by sending him out of the village and endangering the other kids. Baloo, meanwhile, begins to miss Mowgli and feels lonely in the jungle. Bagheera, Colonel Hathi, and his herd attempt to keep him away from the Man-Village when he goes there to pick up Mowgli. To the surprise of the vultures and their new member Lucky, Shere Khan has returned to the jungle where Baloo and Bagheera live in order to exact revenge on Mowgli for defeating him in the first movie. Unbeknownst to them, Shere Khan had also entered the village in search of Mowgli, only to be ambushed by the locals. Later that evening, Baloo arrives at the Man-Village and returns Mowgli to the jungle. Believing that Baloo is a rabid animal who has abducted Mowgli, Shanti and Ranjan enter the jungle covertly to save him during the subsequent pursuit. After attempting to eat Mowgli once more, as he had done with Baloo, Kaa tries to eat Shanti, but Ranjan hits him with a stick. When the humans search the jungle for Mowgli, which frightens many animals, including Hathi and his herd, Bagheera finds out about his escape from the village and suspects Baloo right away. Mowgli laments his dull existence in the Man-Village and gives Baloo instructions to frighten Shanti away should she show up. King Louie is said to have moved out, so Baloo and Mowgli travel to his former temple for a celebration. Mowgli furiously departs the Man-Village after the jungle animals make fun of Shanti and other parts of his life. He locates Ranjan and Shanti, but Baloo frightens Shanti. Shanti and Ranjan flee, leaving Mowgli behind, when it is revealed that Mowgli gave Baloo the order to frighten her. Baloo understands that Mowgli longs for his village life, but Shere Khan corners Mowgli when he attempts to patch things up with his human companions. Mowgli and Shanti are pursued by the tiger to an abandoned temple situated above a lava lake. Baloo gives Bagheera instructions to keep Ranjan safe while he goes to rescue Shanti and Mowgli. Shanti confuses Shere Khan by pounding multiple gongs before Shere Khan realizes she is there. Mowgli and Shanti have enough time to flee after Baloo throws Shere Khan to the ground, but the tiger follows them across a lava pit to a statue. The statue falls onto a big stone in the lava below, trapping Shere Khan inside its mouth. Bagheera proudly congratulates Baloo on his wise choice after Baloo permits Mowgli to return to the Man-Village with Shanti and Ranjan after Shere Khan is ultimately stopped. When Mowgli returns to the Man-Village, he makes amends with the village chief, who expresses regret for not realizing that the jungle was an integral part of who he was. The kids come back every day to see Baloo and Bagheera in the jungle, and Mowgli is happy with his new life in the Man-Village.