movieId: 8961
title: The Incredibles
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0317705/
ratingValue: 
directors: Brad Bird
actors: Craig T. Nelson, Holly Hunter, Samuel L. Jackson, Jason Lee, Dominique Louis, Theodore Newton, Jean Sincere, Eli Fucile, Maeve Andrews

synopsis:
Mr. Incredible and Elastigirl are both superhero crime fighters. They both admit to media people that they have alternate personas that they hide from the public to maintain their privacy. They meet while chasing a criminal and fall in love. On the day of his wedding with Helen / Elastigirl, Bob Parr / Mr. Incredible helps an elderly woman with her cat, stops a police car chase, and thwarts a civilian's attempted suicide by tackling him through a skyscraper window. Bob then discovers super-villain Bomb Voyage robbing the building.
A boy named Buddy interrupts Mr. Incredible when he stops a bank robbery by Bomb Voyage (Dominique Louis) who is a French super-villain who uses explosives. Bob rejects Buddy, and Voyage clips a bomb onto Buddy's cape. Incredible saves him by removing the bomb, that falls on the metro tracks and ends up blowing it. Mr. Incredible then stops an oncoming metro train with brute force to save all the passengers. Buddy really wanted to be Mr. Incredible's sidekick. Buddy is sent home by the police when Mr. Incredible says that he does not need a sidekick as he worked alone. Buddy turns bitter and decides to no longer consider Mr. Incredible as his role model.
Bob reaches late for his own wedding but eventually marries Helen. Public opinion turns against superheroes due to the collateral damage caused by their crime-fighting. The saved person sues Mr. Incredible for causing him physical harm during his suicide attempt. Mr. Incredible was also sued by the passengers of the metro train, who claim that Incredible's actions caused them bodily injury. After several lawsuits, the government initiates the Superhero Relocation Program, which forces "supers" to permanently adhere to their secret identities and abandon their exploits. Supers are granted amnesty from their past actions in exchange for the promise that they will not resume their Superhero work ever again. Fifteen years later, Robert / Bob Parr (Craig T. Nelson) and Helen Parr (Holly Hunter) formerly known as Mr. Incredible who possessed super-strength and Elastigirl who had the ability to stretch her body like rubber live with their children, 15 years old Violet (Sarah Vowell) who can become invisible and generate an impact-resistant force shield, 10 years old Dash (Spencer Fox) possessing super-speed, and baby Jack-Jack (Eli Fucile and Maeve Andrews) whose powers are yet unknown. They are a suburban family living in Metroville. Bob and Helen moved to Metroville 3 years ago. The family is often now struggling with everyday life problems and is sometimes dysfunctional.
Although he loves his family, Bob resents the mundane repetitiveness of his suburban lifestyle and white-collar job as an insurance adjuster, where his only job is to deny claims of legitimate claimants by tying them up in paperwork. Secretly, hiding from his supervisor, Bob helps deserving customers such Ms. Hogenson (Jean Sincere) by detailing out the process they need to follow to get their claims approved.
Bob's demeaning boss Gilbert Huph (Wallace Shawn) is a tiny man compared to Bob but constantly yells at him for approving payments on client policies. Bob notices a newspaper article that mentions that one of supers is now reported missing.
Together with his best friend, Lucius Best (Samuel L. Jackson), formerly known as Frozone, who can form ice from humidity, Bob occasionally relives "the glory days" by moonlighting as a vigilante. They save people from dangerous situations without being identified by the police or anyone else. Dash is frequently in trouble in school for mocking the teacher Bernie Kropp (Lou Romano), but nothing can be proven, as Dash is too fast for the class cameras to record anything. Helen tells Dash that the world wants them to fit in and asks him to suppress his powers. Violet struggles to fit in at her school as she is overtly shy and cannot even communicate with a boy Tony Rydinger (Michael Bird) that she has a crush on. One day, Bob's supervisor Gilbert Huph, prevents him from stopping a mugging while he was lecturing him on how Bob should not help his customers. Bob loses his temper and injures Gilbert by throwing him through multiple walls in the office, resulting in Bob's dismissal. The government representative tells Bob that they are tired of paying for Bob's mistakes. The company has to be paid, Gilbert has to be paid, and the government spends money to relocate the family and create new identities. He says this stops now and Bob is on his own. Returning home, Bob receives a message from a woman called Mirage (Elizabeth Pena), who gives him a paying mission to destroy a savage, tripod-like, out-of-control AI-controlled robot, the Omnidroid, which is terrorizing their laboratory on the remote island of Nomanisan. Bob sees this as an opportunity to become a superhero again, and leaves. Bob tells Helen that he is being sent by his insurance company for a conference. He never tells Helen that he was fired. Bob battles and disables Omnidroid by tricking it into ripping out its own power source. Bob finds the action and higher pay rejuvenating. He improves his relationship with his family and begins rigorous physical training while awaiting another assignment from Mirage over the next two months. Finding a tear in his super suit, he visits superhero costume designer Edna Mode (Brad Bird) to have it mended. Edna tells Bob that he cannot use a cape during battles, due to many superheroes in the past dying from cape-related accidents, and she designs him a new red and yellow suit to replace his old blue and red suit. Incorrectly assuming he has told his family about going back into superhero business, Edna decides to design new suits for the entire family. Setting out for Nomanisan once again, Bob discovers Mirage is working for Buddy Pine (Jason Lee), a disaffected former fan whom he had rejected as his sidekick IncrediBoy.
This incident had a huge negative effect on Buddy who decided that people only worshiped strength. Buddy believes that Mr. Incredible rejected him since he did not have any superpowers. Buddy has now become a ruthless inventor and wealthy arms dealer. Having adopted the alias Syndrome, Buddy is Mr. Incredible's fan-turned-super-villain, who uses his scientific prowess to give himself enhanced abilities. Syndrome throws Bob into a lake and attempts to kill Bob with a miniature bomb, but Bob escapes via swimming through a cave, though Syndrome assumes him to be dead. Bob escapes Syndrome and is able to hide from his drone cameras. At nightfall, Bob sneaks into Syndrome's secret base lair and looks into his computer files. Bob finds that Syndrome has been secretly planning and thus far succeeding in a mass genocide scheme known as "Operation: Kronos" and has been testing previous Omnidroid replicas via killing past superheroes and has plans already to kill Helen. Syndrome intends to send the perfected Omnidroid to Metroville, where he will secretly manipulate its controls to defeat it in public, becoming a "hero" himself. He will later sell his inventions so that everyone can become "super", rendering the difference meaningless. Helen finds the mend on Bob's old suit and knows only Edna could have done it. Helen visits Edna who shows Helen the new suits that she has built for her kids, suitable for their powers. Helen learns what Bob has been up to. She activates a beacon Edna built into the suits to find Bob, inadvertently causing him to be captured while infiltrating Syndrome's base. Bob is attacked by automatic guns that shoot a sticky ball like substance that grows and gets heavier, weighing Bob down and making his movement impossible even with his super-strength. Helen takes the new suits home and borrows a jet from her longtime pilot friend, Snug Porter, and uses it to pursue Bob. The kids find out that she is leaving for a secret mission and even find their own special suits. Helen finds out that Violet and Dash have stowed away, leaving Jack-Jack with babysitter Kari (Bret Parker). Helen's radio transmissions are picked up by Syndrome, who sends anti-aircraft missiles to shoot her down. Despite knowing that there are children on the plane, Syndrome orders the plane to be shot down. The plane is destroyed and Bob believes that he lost his family, but Helen and the kids survive by using their powers collectively. Violet creates a force field around the family to help them survive, Helen stretches into a parachute to help them land and Dash runs fast on water to create a water jet like effect to reach the island. Helen infiltrates the base after she hides the kids in a cave on the island and telling them to use their powers in case they get into trouble. Helen discovers Syndrome's plan. The kids are forced to escape the cave as the cave was at the end of the exhaust system for the rocket being launched by Syndrome to transport Omnidroid to Metroville. The kids are located by the island's security system, and they launch weapons against them. While in custody, Bob gets a hold of Mirage, but Syndrome challenges Bob to kill her, but Bob can't as he is not a murderer. Mirage is discontented with Syndrome's indifference when her life was threatened.
Mirage releases Bob and informs him of his family's survival. Helen arrives and races off with Bob to find their children. Syndrome's guards chase Dash and Violet, who fends them off with their powers before reuniting with their parents. Syndrome captures them all, leaving the family imprisoned while he follows the rocket transporting the Omnidroid to Metroville. The Parrs escape to Metroville in another rocket with Mirage's help. Due to its advanced artificial intelligence, the Omnidroid recognizes Syndrome as a threat to itself and shoots off the remote control on Syndrome's wrist, making him incapable of controlling it and knocking him unconscious. The Parrs and Lucius fight the Omnidroid together. Helen acquires the remote control, allowing Bob to use one of the robot's claws to destroy its power source. The Parrs and Lucius are hailed by the public just as Syndrome awakens to see their victory. Returning home, the Parrs find Syndrome, who plans to kidnap Jack-Jack and raise him as his own sidekick out of revenge. As Syndrome flies up toward his jet, Jack-Jack's own shape-shifting superpowers manifest, and he escapes Syndrome in midair. Helen catches Jack-Jack, and Bob throws his car at Syndrome's plane as he boards it. Syndrome is sucked into the jet's turbine by his own cape and the plane explodes.
This is ironic as Edna always said that a superhero costume should never have a cape. Three months later, the Parrs are settled in their home and the kids are finally more comfortable with using their powers. Dash wins the races in school by a close margin, while Violet is a lot more confident and asks Tony out on a date.
The Parrs witness the arrival of super-villain the Underminer (John Ratzenberger). They don their superhero masks, ready to face the new threat together as a family.