movieId: 858
title: The Godfather
year: 1972
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0068646/
ratingValue: 
directors: Francis Ford Coppola
actors: Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, James Caan, Richard S. Castellano, Robert Duvall, Sterling Hayden, John Marley, Richard Conte, Al Lettieri, Diane Keaton

synopsis:
In 1945, while his daughter Connie is getting married to Carlo Rizzi, Vito Corleone, the Don of the Corleone family in New York City, listens to requests. The reception is where Vito's youngest son, Michael, a Marine and World War II hero who has so far avoided involvement in the family business, presents his girlfriend, Kay Adams. Vito's godson, well-known singer Johnny Fontane, asks Vito for assistance in landing a film role. To convince Jack Woltz, the studio president, to give Johnny the role, Vito dispatches his consigliere Tom Hagen. Woltz initially rejects Hagen's request, but after discovering the severed head of his beloved stud horse in his bed, he eventually gives in. Drug lord Virgil "The Turk" Sollozzo appeals to Vito to invest in his drug business and provide police protection as Christmas draws near. Vito refuses, saying that he would lose his political network if he got involved in drug use. Vito sends his enforcer Luca Brasi on an espionage mission to the Tattaglias because he suspects Sollozzo of having a relationship with the Tattaglia crime family. At the first meeting, Brasi is killed by garroting. Officers later shoot Vito and force Hagen to attend a meeting. Now that Vito's firstborn son Sonny is in charge, Sollozzo puts pressure on Hagen to convince Sonny to agree to the drug deal. After NYPD officers on Sollozzo's payroll remove Vito's guards, Michael visits him in the hospital after he survives the shooting and discovers that he is unprotected. When Michael stops his father's murder attempt, dishonest police captain Mark McCluskey beats him. Sonny hits Bruno Tattaglia in retaliation for the attempted hit at the hospital. In order to resolve the conflict, Sollozzo and McCluskey ask to meet with Michael. After pretending to be interested and agreeing to meet, Michael plans to kill Sonny and Corleone capo Clemenza and then disappears. At a restaurant in the Bronx, Michael meets Sollozzo and McCluskey. He takes out a gun that Clemenza had hidden in the restroom and kills both men. The Five Families engage in open warfare in spite of the government's crackdown on the murder of a police captain. Moe Greene provides sanctuary for Vito's second son Fredo in Las Vegas, while Michael seeks safety in Sicily. Michael meets and weds Apollonia, a local, in Sicily. Carlo is publicly attacked and threatened by Sonny for mistreating Connie physically. Sonny rushes to their house after he mistreats her once more, but gangsters ambush and kill him at a highway toll booth. Michael is the target of a car bomb that kills Apollonia shortly after. Vito arranges a meeting with the Five Families because he is weary of war and devastated by Sonny's passing. He promises them he will stop opposing their drug trade and that he will not seek revenge for Sonny's death. With his safety assured, Michael goes back to his hometown to marry Kay and start the family business. At the beginning of the 1950s, Kay gives birth to two children. Michael takes over as the head of the Corleone family since his father is dying and Fredo is not fit to be the leader. Michael is informed by Vito that Don Barzini ordered the hit on Sonny and that Barzini would attempt to kill him during a meeting that a traitor Corleone capo had set up. Since Hagen is not a "wartime consigliere," Michael assigns him to oversee operations in Las Vegas with Vito's help. Michael is devastated to discover that Fredo is more devoted to Greene than to his own family when he goes to Las Vegas to purchase Greene's share in the family's casinos. While playing with Michael's son Anthony in 1955, Vito suffers a heart attack and passes away. Tessio betrays Michael by asking him to meet with Barzini at Vito's funeral. The meeting is scheduled for the same day as Connie's baby's baptism. The dons of the Five Families are killed by Corleone hit men, along with Greene for failing to sell his hotel and Tessio for betraying Michael, while Michael stands at the baptismal font as the child's godfather. Michael coerces Carlo into confessing to his role in Sonny's killing. He tells Carlo that he is not being killed but rather banished. Carlo confesses, but shortly after, Clemenza chokes him in a car. With Kay present, Connie questions Michael about his role in Carlo's demise. Kay is relieved when Michael denies responsibility when she asks him if he ordered Carlo's death. Capos enter the office and honor Michael as "Don Corleone" as she departs.