movieId: 5942
title: The Hot Chick
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0302640/
ratingValue: 
directors: Tom Brady
actors: Rob Schneider, Anna Faris, Matthew Lawrence, Eric Christian Olsen, Robert Davi, Melora Hardin, Alexandra Holden, Rachel McAdams, Maritza Murray, Fay Hauser

synopsis:
In an Abyssinian castle in 50 BC, a princess Nawa (Shazia Ali) uses a pair of enchanted earrings to escape an arranged marriage (The prince she is to marry is a slob and is disgusting) by swapping bodies with a slave girl (Vivian Corado). When each woman wears one of the earrings, their bodies magically trade places between the 2 minds. The King (Ozman Sirgood) takes away the slave girl (in the body of the princess) to marry the Prince. In a modern-day suburban hometown lives Jessica Spencer (Rachel McAdams), a popular high-school girl. She spends time with her friends April (Anna Faris), Keecia (Maritza Murray), and Lulu (Alexandra Holden). April is Jessica's best friend, and all four girls are cheerleaders.
Keecia "Ling-Ling" Jackson is Jessica's African-Korean-Hebrew-American friend. Eden (Sam Doumit) is a goth girl in Jessica's class. Vice Principal Marjorie Bernard (Lee Garlington) was a cheerleader herself and is a big fan of Jessica. At school one day, Jessica makes fun of an overweight girl named Hildenburg (Megan Kuhlmann) and a Wiccan girl named Eden. After that, Jessica and her friends visit the local mall, where Jessica gets her rival Bianca (Maria-Elena Laas) into trouble (they steal an undergarment and put it in her bag, making it look like Bianca stole it). Bianca is taken into custody by mall security.
Jessica then visits an African themed store and finds the same earrings that were used by the princess eons earlier. The earrings are not for sale, so Jessica steals them. Shortly afterward, a small-time criminal named Clive (Rob Schneider) robs a nearby gas station. When Jessica and her friends stop there and mistake him for an employee, he services their car to avoid raising suspicion. Jessica accidentally drops one of the earrings on the ground, and Clive picks it up after the girls drive away.
Jessica is seeing her boyfriend Billy behind her parents back. Jessica is holding out sex on Billy, who is getting increasingly desperate. Jessica's parents Carol (Melora Hardin) and Richard (Michael O'Keefe) are having their own issues, and don't have a healthy or even sexual relationship. That evening, in their respective homes, Jessica and Clive put on their earrings. When they wake up the next morning, each of them is trapped in the other's body. Jessica wakes up in Clive's body in her room, while Clive wakes up in Jessica's body in his house.
This is especially difficult for Jessica, who has a cheering competition and the school prom coming up soon. After Jessica (as Clive) convinces her friends of who she is (she knows all of her most intimate secrets like April's front 2 teeth were brown when she was in 2nd grade and she knows their friendship song), they help her investigate the body swap. Jessica stays with April and tells her parents that she is going on a ski trip with Billy.
The girls believe that one of the girls who hates Jessica did this. Jessica (as Clive) visits her own home, but her father mistakes her for the gardener. Hildenburg, Eden, and Bianca are all found to be innocent as they say that while they hated Jessica, they never did anything to turn her into a man overnight.
Meanwhile Jessica (as Clive) has the usual troubles with the men's room, urinating like a man and taking a dump like a man. Jessica (as Clive) gets into a fight with a guy and defeats him by hitting him in the groin.
Hildenburg and Eden join Jessica (as Clive) after she apologizes to them, and Eden finds a picture of the earrings on the internet.
When the girls return to the African store, the shopkeeper explains how the earrings work and tells the girls they must find the other earring soon or the change will become permanent. Meanwhile, Jessica (as Clive) is hired for two jobs (As Janitor in her school, and as gardener in her own house) while secretly living with April. At her own home, where she works as a gardener (Jessica (as Clive) bonds with Richard as they play basketball in the driveway and share beer together), her parents tell her about their marital problems, and she helps them rekindle their sex life. Carol is attracted to Jessica (as Clive), but she manages to fight her off, by saying that she (as Clive) likes men. Jessica (As Clive) tells Carol that Richard finds her very desirable. At school, while cleaning the boys' locker room as a janitor, she spies on her boyfriend Billy (Matthew Lawrence), who truly loves her, and April's boyfriend Jake (Eric Christian Olsen), who has another girlfriend. Faced with Jake's infidelity, April begins to fall in love with Jessica (as Clive), who agrees to take her to the prom. At the cheering competition, Jessica (as Clive) signals romantically to Billy while disguised as the school mascot, but when the head of her suit falls off, Billy becomes confused (as he sees Clive underneath the mascot costume and not Jessica) and leaves with Bianca. During this time, Clive (as Jessica) has been using Jessica's body to make money from men, including Billy, who gives him his money and car, believing he is Jessica. However, on the evening of the prom, Hildenburg sees a video of Clive robbing a man on the television news and goes to the scene of the crime.
After finding a business card for the club where Clive works as a pole dancer, she informs Jessica at the prom, and the girls go to the club. When they find Clive, Jessica steals his earring and puts it on herself along with the other one. With the two earrings now on the same person, Jessica's and Clive's bodies return to their original owners.
Jessica makes up with Billy. This is followed by the school's graduation ceremony.
Clive, running from the law and still dressed in lingerie, is abducted by a bartender who believes he is a homosexual.