movieId: 1610
title: The Hunt for Red October
year: 1990
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0099810/
ratingValue: 
directors: John McTiernan
actors: Sean Connery, Alec Baldwin, Scott Glenn, Sam Neill, James Earl Jones, Joss Ackland, Richard Jordan, Peter Firth, Tim Curry, Courtney B. Vance

synopsis:
In November 1984, just after Gorbachev came to power, a Typhoon class Soviet submarine surfaced off the Grand Banks. It then sank, after suffering a radiation problem. Reports indicated that some crews were rescued. The US and Soviet Government deny the story. In 1984, Captain First Rank Marko Ramius (Sean Connery) is the commanding officer of Red October, a new Soviet submarine whose caterpillar drive renders it undetectable to sonar. Ramius leaves port on orders to conduct exercises with the submarine V.K. Konovalov (to test the operational readiness of the Caterpillar Drive), commanded by his former student Captain Tupolev (Stellan Skarsgard).
The crew includes Dr. Yevgeni Petrov (Tim Curry) Medical Officer, 1st Lieutenant Ivan Putin Political Officer, Captain 2nd rank Vasily Borodin, Igor Loginov a cook, Sonar Officer Kamarov (Anatoly Davydov), Lieutenant Melekhin (Ronald Guttman) Chief Engineer, Viktor Slavin (Boris Lee Krutonog) Diving Officer, Yevgeni Bonovia (Christopher Janczar) Executive Officer. Once at sea, Ramius murders political officer Ivan Putin (Peter Firth) (by making it look like he slipped on tea on the floor and snapped his neck on the furniture), the only man aboard besides himself who knows the submarine's true orders. Ramius then burns the real orders, pulls out fake documents and commands the crew to head toward America's east coast to conduct missile drills. Ivan's missile key is kept by Ramius, a move objected to by Petrov. A short time later, Ramius announces to the crew that they will conduct "missile drills" off the East Coast of the United States. Once they are finished they'll sail to Cuba for R&R. The crew begin to sing the Soviet national anthem, leading Ramius' executive officer, Borodin (Sam Neill), to worry they will be heard. Ramius allows them to continue. The USS Dallas, an American submarine on patrol in the north Atlantic, briefly detects Red October (and recognizes as a new Typhoon class submarine launched by Soviet Russia) but loses contact once Ramius engages the silent drive. The Dallas uses the SAPS (or Signal Algorithmic Processing Systems) to process ocean sounds and detect submarines from marine life. The chief sonar officer aboard Dallas, Petty Officer "Jonesy" Jones, swears he heard the crew singing as the October disappeared from his instruments. CIA analyst and former Marine Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin) is based in London but returns to Washington. Jack Ryan is a specialist in marine warfare. Jack has promised his daughter Sally that he would get her a brother for her teddy bear Stanley when he returns from his trip. After consulting with Vice Admiral James Greer (James Earl Jones), the Deputy Director of the CIA, Ryan briefs government officials on Red October and the threat it poses. Jack has photos of the Red October and says that it is equipped with a new kind of propulsion drive. Jack knows that Ramius is politically connected and has taken out the lead boat in each new Submarine class in the last 10 years. He has also trained most of their attack boat skippers.
Jack consults former Submarine captain Skip Tyler (Jeffrey Jones) to confirm his suspicions of a new propulsion system designed by the Soviets. Skip identified the Caterpillar Drive as a new Magneto-HydroDynamic form of propulsion. It has no moving parts and is very quiet. Skip says that the submarine could place hundreds of nuclear warheads next to the US coast and nobody would know.
Skip was working on designing a generic docking collar for a rescue submarine, that will allow it to dock with any Submarine in the world. It can deployed anywhere in the world in 24 hours. Before leaving port, Ramius had sent a letter to the defense minister Yuri Padorin. Reading the letter, the minister panics and issues a set of orders immediately. Greer briefs Ryan on the developments in Soviet Union. Upon learning that the bulk of the Soviet Navy has been deployed to the Atlantic (at that point 58 nuclear submarines and 20 other cruisers and destroyers have been deployed by the Soviets to hunt for the Red October) to find and sink the submarine (as per the orders of Padorin), the Joint Chief of Staffs conclude that Ramius plans a renegade nuclear strike.
During the briefing, Ryan hypothesizes that Ramius, a native-born Lithuanian widower with few remaining personal ties to the Soviet Union, instead plans to defect to the United States. He trained all of the Soviet officer corps and was in a position to select men willing to help him. The day he disappeared is the first anniversary of his wife's death. National Security Advisor Jeffrey Pelt (Richard Jordan) gives Ryan three days (Ramius will reach the East coast of the US in four days' time) to confirm his theory before the U.S. Navy will be ordered to find and sink Red October. Ryan sets out to rendezvous with an aircraft carrier USS Enterprise in the mid-Atlantic. He meets Rear Admiral Joshua Painter (Fred Thompson), USN, Commander of the Enterprise and explains his plan to help Ramius detect. Ryan learns from Joshua that the Dallas had earlier made contact with something that sounded like a seismic anomaly. Ryan knows that Dallas has found the Red October, and requests Painter have a helicopter fly him to the Dallas, a very long range and dangerous flight. Joshua arranges a helicopter for Ryan and send coordinates to the Dallas for an intercept, not knowing if they would actually receive them and be at the designated location.
Meanwhile, after some delay, Tupolev (Captain of SSN Kanavalov) also receives orders to intercept and destroy Red October, angered that the orders arrived some eight hours late while they were waiting for Red October to arrive for drills testing the caterpillar drive. Due to an unknown saboteur's actions, Red October's caterpillar drive malfunctions during risky maneuvers through a narrow undersea canyon. Thus, the Red October is forced to run on normal propellers. A Soviet anti-submarine aircraft detects the Red October and drops a torpedo. Only deft handling by Ramius allows the submarine to evade the torpedo, which crashes into the canyon walls. Aboard Dallas, Jonesy discovers a way to detect Red October using his underwater acoustics software (he is able to determine the sound of the Caterpillar Drive, by running the tape at 10 times the normal speed), and Dallas plots an intercept course. Jones determines that Red October is headed to underwater canyons called Thor's Twins. Mancuso plots a course to the other end of the canyons, so it can intercept the Red October when it emerges. Meanwhile, the Red October has fixed the Caterpillar Drive, and it is operational again. The Soviet ambassador Andrei Lysenko (Joss Ackland) informs the U.S. government that Ramius is a renegade and asks for help in sinking Red October. That order is sent to the U.S. fleet, including Dallas, which has reacquired the Soviet submarine. After a hazardous mid-ocean transfer (the submarine surfaces when the helicopter had seconds of fuel remaining before hitting Bingo fuel status), Ryan is able to board Dallas (who got the message on ELF while tracking the Red October).
Ryan attempts to persuade its captain, Commander Bart Mancuso (Scott Glenn), to contact Ramius (when he learns that the Dallas has reacquired the Red October) and determine his real intentions. Mancuso is skeptical since he has orders in hand from his superiors to sink the Red October. Ryan convinces Mancuso that he knows Ramius by correctly guessing the direction of his Crazy Ivan (the Soviet boats turn suddenly and run a full circle to check if they are being followed) maneuver. Ryan remains convinced that Ramius plans to defect with his officers and finally convinces Mancuso to contact Ramius and offer assistance. They communicate via the periscope lights using Morse code. Ramius responds using sonar pings. Ramius, stunned that the Americans correctly guessed his plan, accepts Mancuso's offer. Ryan asks Ramius to move to the Laurentian Abyssal (the deepest point of the ocean in the vicinity) for further steps. Ramius stages a nuclear reactor "emergency", ordering the sub to surface and his crew to abandon ship. After a U.S. frigate is spotted heading right for them, Ramius submerges, leaving his crew in life rafts. The frigate launches a torpedo at the Red October, which is detonated just before it hits the submarine; the destruct button is pressed by Greer himself, who firmly advises the officer that he heard the torpedo hit Red October to mask the next steps in the operating. To the surface survivors it looks like the Americans are attacking Ramius's submarine.
Ryan, Mancuso, and Jones board Red October via a rescue sub, at which point Ramius turns over his sub to the Americans and requests asylum for himself and his officers. Red October is suddenly ambushed by Konovalov. Konovalov fires a torpedo at the Red October, which Ramius counters by turning the ship into the path of the torpedo and hitting it before the torpedo could arm itself. Again, Ramius uses his knowledge of Soviet tactics to defeat Konovalov, however he also knows that Tupelov will not make that mistake again. As the two Soviet subs maneuver, one of Red October's cooks, Loginov (Tomas Arana), reveals himself to be an undercover GRU agent and the saboteur. He opens fire on the bridge, fatally wounding Borodin , before retreating to the missile bay, intending to ignite a missile engine and destroy the ship. Loginov is pursued by Ryan and Ramius, and he wounds Ramius before being killed by Ryan. Meanwhile, Konovalov fires upon Red October with a torpedo, which Dallas is able to divert toward herself and evade by launching countermeasures and conducting an emergency blow to the surface. The torpedo reacquires Red October, but Mancuso executes a maneuver that diverts the torpedo towards Konovalov, which it strikes and destroys.
The crew of Red October, now rescued, witness the submerged explosion from the deck of the U.S. frigate. Unaware of the second Soviet submarine, they believe that Ramius has sacrificed himself and scuttled Red October to avoid being boarded. Ryan and Ramius, their subterfuge complete, navigate Red October to the Penobscot River in Maine. Ramius admits that he defected because he believed Red October was intended for a preemptive nuclear first strike against the United States and was unwilling to support such an action. Ryan boards a flight home and thanks to his exertions is finally able to sleep aboard a plane, while seated next to a teddy bear intended for his daughter.