movieId: 3869
title: The Naked Gun 2½: The Smell of Fear
year: 1991
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0102510/
ratingValue: 
directors: David Zucker
actors: Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy, O.J. Simpson, Robert Goulet, Richard Griffiths, Jacqueline Brookes, Anthony James, Lloyd Bochner, Tim O'Connor

synopsis:
Lieutenant Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) is honored at the White House, where President George H. W. Bush (John Roarke) announces that he will base his recommendation for the country's energy program on Dr. Albert Meinheimer's (Richard Griffiths) advice at the National Press Club dinner the following week. The heads of the coal and oil (fossil fuel) and nuclear industries are apparently distressed by this fact as Dr. Meinheimer plans to advocate for renewable energy. Jane Spencer (Priscilla Presley), now separated from Frank Drebin, and working for Dr. Meinheimer, is working late at his research institute, crying about Frank. She spots a man in a red van. A maintenance worker, emptying out garbage cans, discovers a clock with dynamite attached and takes it to the security guards, accidentally triggering it. The next morning, Frank reacquaints himself with Jane as he interviews her about the explosion. He is shown around the institute and meets Jane's boyfriend, Hexagon Oil executive Quentin Hapsburg (Robert Goulet), of whom he becomes exceedingly jealous. Frank's boss Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) finds him at a lonely blues bar. Jane finds Frank at the bar, and they get into an argument, after which Jane storms out. Meanwhile, at a meeting of the "energy" industry leaders, Hapsburg reveals that he has kidnapped Dr. Meinheimer and found an exact double for him, Earl Hacker, who will give their recommendation to the President endorsing fossil and nuclear fuels. Dr. Meinheimer is kidnapped by Hapsburg's goons, who tie him up and leave him in a warehouse. Police Squad determines the driver of the van, Hector Savage (Anthony James) (the man whom Jane saw on the night of the bombing), to be connected to a sex toy shop. Frank spots the red van, assigning Nordberg (O. J. Simpson) the task of bugging it. Savage leads them on a short chase that ends in a standoff at a nearby house. Frank commandeers a tank, which he drives into the house, allowing Savage to escape. Frank loses control of the tank and crashes into the city zoo, causing the animals to escape. Drebin arrives at a party. Frank notices that Dr. Meinheimer does not remember meeting him despite having a photographic memory. After a disastrous attempt to "wheel" the Meinheimer double to the stage for a raffle drawing, Frank goes to Jane's apartment. Frank visits Jane at her apartment after the party and asks if Dr. Meinheimer had been acting strange. Savage arrives with orders to kill Jane. He comes across Jane in the shower, and she screams, alerting Frank to his presence. Frank sticks a fire hose in Savage's mouth and turns on the water, which continues to run until Savage apparently bursts his body from all the water pressure. They rediscover their love for each other. Frank follows the trail to the dock of Hapsburg's oil company. Jane realizes Hapsburg's plan and asks Frank to stop him. The next day, Police Squad stakes out the warehouse where Dr. Meinheimer is being held captive. Hapsburg and the energy representatives meet in a warehouse. Frank falls through the roof while being chased by a guard dog. They tie up Frank with the real Dr. Meinheimer. Police Squad frees them. They go to the hotel where Dr. Meinheimer is to make his recommendation to the President. Frank, Nordberg, Ed and the real Meinheimer get into the building by appropriating a costume and instruments from a Mariachi band due to perform at the hotel. Drebin encounters Hacker, who attacks him. Ed captures Hacker and gets a confession from him, causing Hapsburg to take Jane hostage and flee the dinner. Football players from the Chicago Bears appear and, believing Frank to be attacking a defenseless man, proceed to wheel away Hacker while attacking Frank. Ed and Meinheimer arrive to disable Hacker, who is arrested. During the confusion, Drebin mistakes Meinheimer for the fake, permitting Hapsburg to escape with Jane. Frank pursues Hapsburg to the roof where he learns that Hapsburg has rigged up a small nuclear device which will kill everyone in the building. Frank catches Hapsburg and attempts to learn the bomb's disarming code but Ed throws Hapsburg out a window. Miraculously, Hapsburg bounces off an awning and lands on the sidewalk unscathed, only to be killed by an escaped lion from the zoo. Frank and Jane attempt to disarm the bomb while Ed and Nordberg go back into the ballroom to evacuate it. Frank finally disarms the bomb at the last second by tripping over and unplugging the power cord. Drebin is commended by the President, who offers him a special post as head of the Federal Bureau of Police Squad. He declines, instead asking Jane to marry him, which she accepts. They go out to a balcony, where they accept commendations from the crowd. Frank spins around and accidentally knocking Barbara Bush (Margery Ross) off the balcony. She manages to hold on, although in an attempt to help her, Frank pulls off her dress.