movieId: 502
title: The Next Karate Kid
year: 1994
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0110657/
ratingValue: 
directors: Christopher Cain
actors: Pat Morita, Hilary Swank, Michael Ironside, Constance Towers, Chris Conrad, Arsenio 'Sonny' Trinidad, Michael Cavalieri, Walton Goggins, Jim Ishida, Rodney Kageyama

synopsis:
Mr. Miyagi (Noriyuki "Pat" Morita) travels to Boston, Massachusetts to attend a commendation for Japanese American soldiers, who fought in the 442nd Regimental Combat Team during World War II. He is referred to as "Keisuke Miyagi" during the ceremony. He meets Louisa Pierce (Constance Towers), the widow of his commanding officer and a lieutenant, Jack and they both listen to the opening speech given by Senator Daniel Inouye. Miyagi and Pierce are invited to accept a citation on behalf of the entire unit. At Pierce's home, they catch up on old times and war stories.
Miyagi is also introduced to Pierce's granddaughter, Julie (Hilary Swank), a high school teen struggling with anger issues due to her parents' death in a car accident. At first, Julie is downright rude to Miyagi and doesn't even greet him when she returns home late, after missing dinner. Her behavior has led to friction between Julie and her grandmother, along with her fellow students and teachers. Julie would not tell Pierce about why she returns home late, or why she takes meat from the fridge while going out of the house again. Julie wants Pierce to leave her alone. She sneaks into the school at night to care for an injured Harris's hawk, whom she names Angel (Frank Welker), which she keeps in a pigeon coop on the roof. Angel has an injured wing and thus cannot fly off. Miyagi invites Louisa to stay at his house in Los Angeles to enjoy peace and quiet tending his garden while he stays in Boston as Julie's caretaker. Julie is bitter as it is her birthday in a couple of weeks, and she believes that Pierce forgot about the same. Miyagi promises to make tempura, teriyaki or sushi for her as a gift. At school, Julie meets and befriends Eric McGowen (Chris Conrad), a teenage security guard-in-training and a pledge for a shady school security fraternity, the Alpha Elite. The members are taught to enforce the school rules, mostly by using physical force, by a self-styled colonel, Dugan (Michael Ironside). His toughest, strongest, and most aggressive student is the short-fused Ned (Michael Cavalieri), who makes unwanted sexual advances on Julie.
Ned catches Julie smoking cigarettes in the plant room. He wants Julie to meet him at the docks for a make out session and when Julie resists, he reports her to Dugan and to the principal, who place her on record. Dugan believes that the country's enemies are not internal, and the Alpha Elite need to be ready to give a maximum response. Eric is part of the Alpha Elite and refuses to fight Dugan as he was beating up all the cadets to show how tough he is. Dugan slaps Eric and then strangles him when he tries to fight back. Miyagi had come to pick Julie when he sees this and intervenes. Dugan is distracted and leaves Eric alone as a result. Eric finds that Julie cares for Angel on the roof of the school. Julie is worried that Eric would report Angel to Dugan. She refuses to get out of his car until he promises not to, and he takes to a rail-yard, where they spend sometime together. Julie is still very hostile to Miyagi. Miyagi makes Julie do her homework which she has been missing for 3 weeks. When Julie survives almost being hit by a car by jumping into a tiger position (and landing on the hood of the car), she finally learns to confide in Miyagi when he approves of Julie's talent. She reveals that she was taught karate by her father, who learned from her grandfather, Miyagi's student. While trying to feed Angel one night, Julie is detected by the Alpha Elite who chase her through the school. She hides in the cafeteria until Ned finds her, at which point she hits a fire alarm with her backpack to get away. Outside the school, she is arrested by the police and gets suspended for two weeks by Colonel Dugan. Miyagi uses this time to take Julie to a Buddhist monastery to teach her the true ways of karate and how to handle her anger issues. Julie learns through direct lessons about balance, coordination, awareness and respect for all life. She befriends several monks, including the Grand Abbot. The monks host a birthday party for her, giving her a cake and an arrow that Miyagi had caught in mid-flight in a demonstration of Zen archery, as well as conceding to her wish that they visit her in Boston, where they go bowling with Miyagi. A local player challenges them, loses the match, and accepts their tutelage in how to bowl a strike blind. Upon returning to school, Julie discovers that Angel was found by Ned who reported her to animal control. Miyagi assists Julie in releasing the bird back to the wild, using the pain suppression technique from the first film to heal Angel's wing. In preparation for the school prom, Miyagi teaches Julie how to dance and purchases her a dress. Julie goes to the prom with Eric, but under the orders of Colonel Dugan, the Alpha Elite bungee jump in. When one of the Alpha Elite members breaks his arm, Eric shows concern, but Ned tells him to mind his own business. Eric drives Julie home and kisses her. Ned follows them, and smashes Eric's car windows with a baseball bat. Ned challenges Eric to a fight at the docks and is joined by Colonel Dugan and the Alpha Elite. They set fire to Eric's car and severely beat him, but Eric is saved by Julie and Miyagi. Ned tries to grab Julie, but she challenges him to a fight. She holds her own, using the karate she has learned, even when Ned throws sand in her face. Julie defeats Ned and turns her back on him; Colonel Dugan bullies the rest of the group to continue the fight, but they refuse. Miyagi challenges Colonel Dugan to fight and wins, leaving the Alpha Elite disappointed in their instructor. The film concludes with Angel flying freely above the water.