movieId: 1544
title: The Lost World: Jurassic Park
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119567/
ratingValue: 
directors: Steven Spielberg
actors: Jeff Goldblum, Julianne Moore, Pete Postlethwaite, Arliss Howard, Richard Attenborough, Vince Vaughn, Vanessa Chester, Peter Stormare, Harvey Jason, Richard Schiff

synopsis:
Isla Sorna (code-named "Site B" by the InGen company), located in the vicinity of Isla Nublar, 87 miles to the Southwest. A British couple are vacationing there on their private yacht & lose their daughter to Dinosaurs when she ventures off alone into the beach. Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) meets Hammond's (Richard Attenborough) nephew Peter Ludlow (Arliss Howard), the new CEO of Ingen who accuses Malcolm of spreading false rumors about Isla Nublar for payment. Peter says that Malcolm signed an NDA and then proceeded to violate that agreement. As such, his tenure at the university was rescinded and his reputation was left in tatters for spreading unsubstantiated rumors about Isla Nublar. Hammond tells Malcolm that site B was the breeding site for Dinosaurs (Hammond calls Sorna the Factory floor, while Nublar is referred to as the showroom) & after hurricane Clarrisa the Dinos were left free to roam. Hammond says that for 4 years the dinosaurs have lived in a natural environment without human intervention, in their own social groups. The carnivores stay in the interiors of the island, so the team can stay on the outer rim and be safe. They should have died as the dinosaurs were bred with Lysine deficiency, but somehow, they had survived. Hammond wants Malcolm to lead a team to find how. Peter is opposed to the idea & he wants to use Site B for profits to take Ingen out of chapter 11 bankruptcy. After the incident with the British couple, the board took control of InGen from Hammond. Hammond says that now only public support can stop the commercial exploitation of Sorna, but for that he needs a complete photographic record of the animals in their natural habitat. Malcolm refuses Hammond's offer but soon finds that his former girlfriend Sarah Harding (Julianne Moore) has already arrived, with the additional members to meet her in 3 days. Malcolm then plans to rescue Sarah from Site B. Malcolm's meets Eddie Carr (Richard Schiff), who is prepping vehicles and equipment for the expedition & Nick Van Owen (Vince Vaughan), video and photographic man. Malcolm's daughter Kelly (Vanessa Lee Chester) wants to come along on the expedition, but Malcolm explains she can't go. Due to Malcolm's insistence to leave asap, Eddie has to shave off 3 days from his departure time-line. As such, he is not able to test any of his equipment.
Malcolm, Eddie and Nick transport two Mercedes SUV's and a modified RV to Costa Rica, and then head to Site B. Eddie, Malcolm and Nick locate Sarah using a homing beacon on her backpack. They find Kelly has secretly stowed herself on the trip. Sarah refuses to leave Sorna before completing her research. Sarah says that the herbivores are eating a Lysine rich diet to survive, while the carnivores eat the herbivores to get their dose of Lysine.
Sarah argues that there is a well-entrenched dogma around dinosaurs as vicious lizards. It is very hard to characterize them as nurturing parents. Sarah says that she can prove that T-Rex do not abandon their young, as is the current accepted norms of their behavior. Peter Ludlow flies in Roland Tembo (Pete Postlethwaite), a big-game hunter and his entire assault team & equipment to round up various dinosaurs for InGen. Roland also wants to kill a Tyrannosaurus Rex, as fee for the assignment. Roland instead finds an infant T-Rex, and has it chained, with the hope that its cries will bring its parents to their base, where he can hunt them down. Peter is making a presentation to the Ingen board about his plan (Peter pitches a dinosaur themed park in San Diego, with an amphitheater as the highlight attraction), when Nick infiltrates the base camp and frees the dinosaurs & wreck Peter's presentation.
Roland inspects the cages and realizes that they have been sabotaged. Roland realizes that they are not alone on the Island. Malcolm saves the injured infant T-Rex and brings it to the RV for medical attention. But the team is attacked by adult T-Rexes. Their RV is pushed over a cliff & Eddie manages to save them by tying the RV to a tree with a steel wrench cable but gets eaten by Rexes in the process. Malcolm & team hook up with Peter (Peter and his mercenaries come to the RV site to rescue Malcolm and team after the T-Rexes have left) as they plan their rescue off the Island. The only working radio is in the interior, populated by Velociraptors. The members of the team are attacked by raptors as they separate from the main group. As Malcolm reaches the radio (fighting off a pack of Raptors), Roland manages to tranquilize a T-Rex as it attacks their camp at night. Malcolm manages to get a message off to their boat waiting in the seas around the Island.
Helicopters arrive & Roland takes the T-Rex, caged to the waiting ship. The ship reaches San Deigo where Peter plans to put the captured Rex into a cage in a zoo. Only the Rex has escaped the ship & is now loose in the city of San Diego. Malcolm finds that Peter also brought the infant T Rex & kept in the in-construction zoo. Malcolm & Sarah go to retrieve it to lure the T-Rex back to the docks. Upon hearing and smelling the infant, the T-Rex follows the Malcolm and Sarah back to the docks. Ludlow, upon hearing what has happened, orders that the adult male be shot, and that the infant be recovered. When he sees Malcolm and Sarah carrying the infant to the cargo ship, he quickly follows, only to find the infant in the cargo hold. Ludlow attempts to lure the infant out, but soon after, the adult male enters the hold, and injures Ludlow, before allowing the infant to kill him.
Sarah then launches a tranquilizer dart at the T-Rex, which subdues it as Malcolm closes the hold's doors. In the aftermath, the Navy and a new crew escort the ship back to Isla Sorna.