movieId: 5460
title: The Powerpuff Girls Movie
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0289408/
ratingValue: 
directors: Craig McCracken
actors: Cathy Cavadini, Tara Strong, Elizabeth Daily, Roger Jackson, Tom Kane, Tom Kenny, Jennifer Hale, Jennifer Martin

synopsis:
In the city of Townsville, there is chaos with a monkey named Jojo and a hillbilly named Fuzzy Lumpkins running riot. Professor Utonium mixes in Sugar, Spice and Everything Nice to the cauldron, but accidentally spills some Chemical X. Despite this however, the Professor manages to get his end result, in creating three girls with great powers. Blossom, the leader, Buttercup the toughest fighter and Bubbles the sweet, kind hearted one. The girls and the Professor quickly grow to love each other, doing all sorts of normal things as a family. Whilst at school, the trio learn of the game of tag and begin to play, only for things to get out of hand when they use their powers to fly away from each other and when they go into the city, the destroy the place. That evening, Utonium tells them not to use their powers in public. Unfortunately, due to their destructive behavior, the girls are treated as outcasts and the Professor is arrested, causing the girls to try and walk home from school. The girls find themselves in unfamiliar territory, in an alleyway, where they encounter a gang of bullies, called the Ganggreen Gang, until Jojo rescues the girls. Jojo begins to resent the fact that Utonium favored the girls over him, but tells them that he too is hated because of his powers, creating Empathy in the girls. Jojo then tricks the trio into building him a lab and a machine which he claims will "improve the city". Once all the work is done, Mojo "treats" the girls with a trip to the zoo, as he implants a transportation device on the Primates. That evening, Jojo teleports the Primates to his lab and he injects them with Chemical X, transforming them into evil mutants. The following day, the Professor is released from prison and the girls show him all the good they had done, only to find that Jojo and the Primates are attacking the city. Jojo, renaming himself, Mojo Jojo claims that the girls helped him, hurting their reputation further. The Professor grows disappointed at them and starts to lose faith in them. Feeling Dejected, the girls move to outer space and sit on an asteroid, feeling sorry for themselves. Mojo then says he intends to rule the world. The Primate Minions disobey Mojos instructions and have their own plans to terrorize Townsville. The girls hear all the commotion coming from Townsville and rush to the rescue. Buttercup uses her powers to defeat a giant Ape. Blossom tells her and Bubbles that they can use their powers for the good of the town. The girls fight back and defeat all of Mojos Minions. Mojo then overdoses Chemical X, which results in him transforming into a giant monster and gets the trio cornered. Mojo offers the girls an alliance for taking over the world, but they refuse, pushing him off a skyscraper. At that moment, the Professor returns with the antidote, Antidote X, which Mojo lands on, shrinking him back to normal size, ultimately getting arrested by the police. The girls debate using Antidote X to strip them of their powers and turn into "normal" little girls, but the rest of Townsville apologize for misjudging them and approve of their powers. The Mayor asks the girls to use their powers to fight villains and monsters, to protect Townsville. The Professor approves and they create their own crime fighting team, named "The Powerpuff Girls".