movieId: 2078
title: The Jungle Book
year: 1967
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0061852/
ratingValue: 
directors: Wolfgang Reitherman
actors: Phil Harris, Sebastian Cabot, Bruce Reitherman, George Sanders, Sterling Holloway, Louis Prima, J. Pat O'Malley, Verna Felton, Clint Howard

synopsis:
In the jungles of India (Sebastian Cabot), Bagheera the wise and intelligent black panther discovers an orphaned baby boy. Bagheera comes across an abandoned ship-wrecked boat, finding a small baby whose parents died is seen in the basket. Bagheera knew that the baby would need nourishment soon and the nearest man-village was several days away by trek. Without a mother's care, the baby would perish. Bagheera brings him to a pack of wolves, who name him Mowgli (Bruce Reitherman). The pack is led by Akela, (John Abbott) the leader of the Seeonee wolf pack and Rama (Ben Wright) Mowgli's adoptive wolf father. Rama's mate had recently been blessed with a litter of cubs.
As Mowgli grows older, he becomes a beloved part of the wolf pack. Ten years later, Mowgli has grown into a wiry, street smart loincloth cloth diaper-clad feral child.
The pack learns that the murderous Bengal tiger Shere Khan (George Sanders) has returned to their part of the jungle. Shere Khan is a confident and menacing Bengal tiger who is deeply feared by most of the animals of the jungle Knowing that he hates humans and will stop at nothing to kill Mowgli, the wolves decide that the latter must leave. Bagheera agrees to escort Mowgli to a nearby "man village", though Mowgli is reluctant to leave the only home he has ever known, as he does not fear the tiger, and believes he can last against him. Bagheera explains that Shere Khan would always believe that Mowgli would grow up to become a hunter with a gun and hence Mowgli would never be safe with Shere Khan in the jungle.
Not to mention that he has never met others of his own kind, thus everyone in the man-village will seem like strangers to him. Bagheera and Mowgli rest in a tree where Kaa the sly and sinister python (Sterling Holloway) attempts to devour Mowgli but is stopped by Bagheera. Kaa hypnotizes Mowgli into a drowsy trance and strangles the boy by wrapping his coils around his neck. Kaa nearly devours the boy, but Bagheera wakes up and disrupts the hypnosis. Kaa then turns his attention to Bagheera and hypnotizes him, but Mowgli throws Kaa's coils to the ground, taking his head with it. The next morning, Mowgli encounters Colonel Hathi (J. Pat O'Malley) and his elephant herd. Colonel Hathi is a pompous Indian elephant who leads the Jungle Dawn Patrol. Hathi is a recipient of the Victoria Cross for bravery above and beyond the call of duty. He had served in the Maharaja's 5th Pachyderm brigade. Mowgli wants to join in the march and follows behind Junior, a baby elephant. Mowgli spends quality time bonding with the baby elephant, who is Hathi's son, who one day dreams of following in his Father's footsteps. They stop in a line for an inspection check and Hathi sees Mowgli in line with the rest of the elephants. He gets angry and says there will be no man cub in his jungle. Then Bagheera catches up to the group and says he's there to take Mowgli to the man village. Following an argument where Mowgli refuses to go to the man village, he is abandoned by Bagheera. All alone, Mowgli meets and befriends Baloo (Phil Harris), a laid-back and carefree sloth bear who promises Mowgli can stay in the jungle with him. After teaching him how to growl like a bear and even fight like a bear, Bagheera overhears the commotion ruckus caused by their horseplay, and hurriedly returns, dismayed that Mowgli has encountered the 'jungle bum.' Baloo shows Mowgli the "Bare-necessities" of life and how to live in the jungle by just sitting back, chill-axing and having fun. Baloo argues that the bare necessities of life would come to Mowgli by themselves, if he was patient enough. The boy and the bear perform seemingly perilous activities, such as eating ants, using a cactus to be able to reach high up and collect fruit, and scratching their backs, much to an annoyed Bagheera's ire. To top it all off, much to Bagheera's horror, Baloo takes the boy to a large, wide and deep lagoon, where they decide go for a swim. Mowgli quickly masters his skinny body's buoyancy and learns swimming. After witnessing them narrowly survive from drowning in the rapids and going over a waterfall, an exasperated Bagheera slips away, fed up with their antics. Mowgli is soon kidnapped by monkeys who bring him to their leader, King Louie (Louis Prima) the orangutan. Louie is a cool and smooth-talking orangutan leader of the monkeys from the ruins of an ancient palace who wants to learn how to make fire.
Baloo was not able to protect Mowgli as the monkeys easily defeat him. Baloo yells for Bagheera for help.
Louie tries to persuade Mowgli to teach him the ways of man, until Baloo and Bagheera arrive. Baloo disguises himself as a monkey and starts dancing with King Louie. The plan nearly works, but his disguise fell apart, blowing his cover. They grab Mowgli and make a run for it, but the monkeys pursue them. The monkeys play another game of 'hot potato with Bagheera and Baloo. King Louie grabs the boy last, wanting Mowgli all for himself. As King Louie grabbed Mowgli, he accidentally tore down the foundation of the temple and threw Mowgli to Baloo to save his home. With King Louie preoccupied, Bagheera, Baloo, and Mowgli make their escape. While Mowgli is sleeping that night, Bagheera tries to convince Baloo that Mowgli must be taken to the man village. Baloo remains unconvinced until Bagheera reminds him that Shere Khan will try and kill Mowgli, as he is afraid of guns and fire. This persuades Baloo, who tells Mowgli the next morning that he must take him to the man village. Feeling betrayed, Mowgli runs away. Baloo is beside himself as he loves Mowgli like his own kid. Bagheera later finds Colonel Hathi's herd and seeks their help in finding Mowgli. Bagheera says that Mowgli ran away and now he is lost in the jungle. Hathi dismisses the threat of Shere Khan as he says that Shere Khan is not within miles of their area of the jungle. However, unknown to any of them, Shere Khan has overheard this and now decides to hunt and kill Mowgli himself. While going through the jungle, Mowgli is ambushed by Kaa once more, who hypnotizes him into a sleep, intending to devour him. However, before he can, Shere Khan arrives and tells Kaa that he is looking for a man cub. Kaa manages to hide Mowgli. Once Shere Khan leaves, Kaa's plans to eat Mowgli are foiled when Mowgli comes out of his trance, and is able to escape Kaa's grasp. After escaping Kaa, Mowgli reaches the wastelands of the jungle where he meets and befriends a group of vultures including Flaps (Chad Stuart) and Dizzy (Lord Tim Hudson). They see Mowgli wandering aimlessly alone and proceed to make fun of him for his human form, such as having skinny legs like a stork but not having any feathers. Quite upset and offended by this, Mowgli chokes up and is about to slip away but the vultures feel bad and try to cheer him up by making him an honorary vulture who is part of their group, willing to take him in as one of their own. However, Shere Khan soon arrives and tries to kill Mowgli. He tries to fight but soon loses his nerve after realizing how terrifying the tiger truly is before Baloo intervenes. Shere Khan throws Baloo off of him, punches and slashes Baloo across the face with his claws, knocking the bear out unconscious. A wounded Baloo collapses, unconscious. Lightning strikes a tree and becomes engulfed in flames. Mowgli grabs one of the lit branches and in the ensuing chaos, Mowgli ties a flaming branch to Shere Khan's tail, and the fire spooks the tiger, sending him fleeing in fear with the burning branch still tied to his tail hitting him. Mowgli now mourns the loss of Baloo. as Bagheera respectfully takes Mowgli away, Baloo reveals he is alive, much to everyone's happiness. As they get closer to the man village, Mowgli becomes smitten with a girl (Darleen Carr) getting water from the river. Seeing the boy perched up towering over her, the girl seduces him with bedroom eyes, causing Mowgli to become love-blind, mesmerized and captivated by her beauty. He follows her into the man village, having finally accepted the fact that he is a human. Baloo whispers for Mowgli to come back, but the love-struck boy follows the girl into the village while carrying her filled water pot. Content that Mowgli is where he belongs, Baloo and Bagheera return to the jungle. Baloo, although partly wishing that the boy would still be with them, accepts this fact and says he's happy for Mowgli starting the next chapter of his life in the village, before wrapping his arm around the panther, stating that they should get going as well.