movieId: 852
title: Tin Cup
year: 1996
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0117918/
ratingValue: 
directors: Ron Shelton
actors: Kevin Costner, Rene Russo, Don Johnson, Cheech Marin, Linda Hart, Dennis Burkley, Rex Linn, Lou Myers, Richard Lineback, George Perez

synopsis:
Roy 'Tin cup' McAvoy (Kevin Costner), is a failed pro golfer who lives at the run-down driving range which he manages with his sidekick and Caddy Romeo (Cheech Marin) in the West Texas tin pot town of Salome. Roy ends up signing over ownership to a Madam Doreen (Linda Hart) of 'show girls' to pay off debts.
Roy once lost his chance to become a professional golfer when he attempted a riskier shot for the final round of the PGA Tour Qualifying Tournament rather than taking a safer shot. Roy lost the qualification by one shot.
Roy's foxy novice golf pupil, female psychiatrist Dr. Molly Griswold (Rene Russo), turns out to be the new girlfriend of McAvoy's sarcastic one-time college golf partner, slick PGA superstar David Simms (Don Johnson).
Molly had spent over $200 on golfing accessories, which Roy calls unnecessary. Molly wants Roy to break down the process of golfing to her, but he says that Molly has to feel the game. Roy compares golf to a poem. Roy says that he has a short follow through which, some people say, indicates that he has never finished anything in his life. Molly is only trying to learn golf to share the passion of her boyfriend. Simms asks Roy to be his Caddy for a charity tournament (Roy once shot a 59 on the course, can still hit a 65 with his eyes closed. Roy knows the course like the back of his hand and the tournament has a $500K purse) & Roy takes it (As Simms promises $100 and 5% of his earnings). The offer is an insult to Roy, but he deep in trouble and has no other options to make money. Roy can't resist challenging Simms to a risky shot on the course. Simms fires Roy when one of the competitors asks Roy to take the shot that he had been proposing to Simms, and he makes it. Simms refuses to pay Roy any of the money promised to him. Roy is neck deep in debt & owes $2K even after signing over his driving range to the madam of show girls. Roy owed a debt of $12,000 and signs over the range for $10,000 plus a salary for him and Romeo. He even pawns off his golf set to survive.
When he finds that Molly is Simms girl, he decides to win the US Open to impress Molly & win her back. He wins a golf gamble (for $400) using garden tools to win money to get his golf set back.
Molly is a therapist, so Roy decides to ask Molly whether his strategy to win her is right. Roy talks hypothetically about another girl in his life & Molly asks him to take a risk & ask the girl out to dinner. Roy professes his love to Molly & she is stunned. Molly says that she cannot be romantically involved with a client. She agrees to be his doctor & help him qualify for the Open. Roy tells Molly that her boyfriend is a very negative person, and he hates everything and everybody, which she refuses to believe.
In the qualifiers, Roy displays a tendency to take needless risks, just to satisfy his own professional esteem, without caring for winning or losing. He angers Romeo when Roy insists on going over a set of trees rather than playing safe and going around them with an extra shot. Roy breaks all his golf clubs when Romeo won't allow him to take the shot. Roy completes the rest of the course only with his 7 iron and qualifies for the sectionals. Roy even loses his car when he challenges Simms to hit the ball the farthest, & Simms wins it by hitting the ball onto the road. Roy again tells Molly that when the camera is not on Simms, he treats old people, kids and dogs like dirt.
Roy qualifies & asks Molly to join him at the Open, which she refuses. Roy begs Romeo to join him as his Caddy at the Open, who accepts. Roy's swing develops a problem and Romeo thinks that the issue is Molly. Roy begs Molly that he needs her, but she continues to resist. Roy wants Molly to dump Simms and be with him.
On the opening day, Roy gets the jitters at the Open Driving range & Romeo makes him realize that he only has to think about golf & nothing else. At the open Roy has a bad first day as he still has the Shanks and cannot hit a single ball straight. Simms comes around to gloat when he hits a 67 and Roy hits an 83. Molly realizes what Roy had been saying all along, that Simms is not a nice guy when the TV cameras are off him. She dumps Simms & has sex with Roy. Before dumping Simms, she makes Simms pay out $2000 on a bet in which Roy makes an seemingly impossible shot from inside a bar, over a fence, across a river to make a pelican fly off its perch at a pier, at the other end of the river.
Roy has a spectacular day & makes the cut, but not before running into par 5 18th, & taking a risky shot for an eagle chance, & then hitting the water, to make par. He makes the same mistake the 3rd day & ends it at 7 under, tied for the lead with Simms. He is paired with Simms the last day & Simms keeps challenging Roy to difficult shots & Roy keeps taking them, falling behind in the scores. At the 18th, 3-way tie for the lead, same shot, & Roy goes for it to win it outright. He makes the green this time, only for the ball to roll back into the water. Roy takes the same shot 11 more times from the same spot, before he makes it perfectly. He loses the US Open, but his 12 on the 18th hole becomes a part of golfing folklore as the whole gathering gives him a standing ovation for making that shot. Molly & Roy are together. Back in Texas, Molly tells Roy that he automatically qualified for next year's Open due to his standing.