movieId: 3404
title: Titanic
year: 1953
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0046435/
ratingValue: 
directors: Jean Negulesco
actors: Clifton Webb, Barbara Stanwyck, Robert Wagner, Audrey Dalton, Thelma Ritter, Brian Aherne, Richard Basehart, Allyn Joslyn, James Todd, Frances Bergen

synopsis:
Julia Sturges (Barbara Stanwyck), who is back then estranged from her husband Richard (Clifton Webb), is travelling in first class on the RMS Titanic. Determined to remove her children from her husband's high society world in Europe, Julia secretly takes their two children, 17-year-old Annette (Andrey Dalton) and 10-year-old Norman (Harper Carper), and plans to raise them in her hometown of Mackinac Island, Michigan. However, after he learns of her plans, Richard buys a steerage ticket aboard the vessel from a Basque immigrant in hopes of intercepting them and taking the children back to Europe. Richard and Julia have a heated confrontation about the ultimate custody of their children. As the vessel prepares for departure, Captain Edward J. Smith (Brian Aherne) receives a suggestion from the shipping company representative that a record-setting speedy passage would be welcomed. Other passengers include a wealthy woman of working class origins based on Margaret "Molly" Brown, Maude Young (Thelma Ritter); a social-climbing snob, Earl Meeker (Allyn Joslyn); a 20-year-old Purdue University tennis player, Gifford "Giff" Rogers (Robert Wagner); who falls in love with Annette Sturges; and a Catholic priest who has been suspended for alcoholism, George S. Healey (Richard Basehart). Julia realizes that Annette is old enough to make her own decisions, and therefore may choose to return to Europe with her father, but insists on keeping custody of Norman. This angers Richard and later, before dining at the captain's table, he aggressively confronts Julia. She then reveals that Norman is not his son, but rather the result of a one-night stand she had after leaving a party where she was belittled in the days before Richard had made her over into his image. He agrees to relinquish custody of Norman (but promises to take care of him and Julia financially), being cold and distant to him from this point on. Second Officer Charles Lightower (Edmund Purdom) expresses his concern to Captain Smith about the ship's speed when they received two messages from other ships warning of iceberg sightings near the route. However, Smith assures him that there is no danger before the lookouts spot an iceberg dead ahead later that night. Although the crew tries to steer clear of danger, the ship is gashed below the waterline and begins taking on water. When Richard finds Captain Smith, he insists on being told the truth; the ship is doomed and there are not enough lifeboats for everyone on board. He tells his family to dress warmly but properly; then they head outside. Richard and Julia have a tearful reconciliation on the boat deck, as he places her, Annette and Norman into a lifeboat. Unnoticed by Julia, Norman gives up his seat in the lifeboat to an older woman and goes looking for Richard. When one of the lines becomes tangled, preventing the lifeboat from being lowered, Gifford climbs down and repairs it, only to lose his grip and fall into the water. Unconscious but alive, he is dragged onto the lifeboat. Meeker disguises himself as a woman to get aboard a lifeboat but Maude Young notices his shoes and unmasks him before the others in the lifeboat. On the spectrum of courage and altruism, George S. Healey pulls oneself together and heads down into one of the boiler rooms to comfort injured crewmen. As the Titanic is in her final moments, Richard and Norman find each other. Richard tells a passing steward that Norman is his son and then tells Norman that he has been proud of him every day of his life. Then they joined the rest of the doomed passengers and the crew in singing the Welch hymn "Nearer, My God, to Thee". As the last boiler explodes, the Titanic's bow plunges, pivoting her stern high into the air while she rapidly slides into the icy water. The remaining survivors are last seen waiting in the lifeboats for help to come as dawn approaches.