movieId: 3745
title: Titan A.E.
year: 2000
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120913/
ratingValue: 
directors: Don Bluth, Gary Goldman
actors: Drew Barrymore, Jim Breuer, Ken Hudson Campbell, Thomas A. Chantler, Tsai Chin, Elaine A. Clark, Roy Conrad, Jim Cummings, Matt Damon

synopsis:
In 3028, deep space travel and interaction with a plethora of alien races is commonplace for humanity. A groundbreaking scientific project known as "The Titan Project" incurs the wrath of the Drej, a hostile race of aliens made of pure energy, who fear that it will allow humans to challenge them. The Drej advance their armada on Earth to destroy the Titan Project and what they see as mankind's last chance of being a dominant force in the galaxy.
Determined to wipe out humanity, the Drej initiate a massive attack on Earth forcing the human race to evacuate the planet On Earth, Five year-old Cale puts the last touches on his latest invention, a hydro-powered console, before it accidentally breaks in a small creek. His father, Sam Tucker comes to collect him, explaining that they have to leave.
Professor Sam Tucker (Ron Perlman), a lead researcher of the experimental Project Titan, gives his 5-year-old son, Cale (Alex D. Linz), a ring promising him that there will be hope for humanity as long as he wears it.
Sam sends him on one of the evacuation ships with his alien friend, Tek (Tone Loc). Meanwhile, Sam and his team (including Joseph Korso) activates Project Titan, a large, spherical ship which manages to fly past the incoming Drej and uses its hyper-drive to vanish into outer space.
The Drej mothership obliterates Earth, which explodes into a massive cloud of debris that destroys the Moon as well, ending any chances of humanity finding a place to settle in the universe. Most of the evacuation ships survived, though some were destroyed by the Drej and Earth's debris, and a majority of the human race perished. Fifteen years later in 3043, the surviving humans are reduced to either living in drifter colonies on settlements made from the metal of the evacuation ships or being second class citizens in alien societies, in which they are generally ridiculed. Cale (Matt Damon) is breaking up old spaceships in the salvage yard of the Tau 14 asteroid belt.
Impatient and tired of constantly being shoved to the back of the line, Cale defiantly rides his scooter away from the check-out point to the nearest hangar entrance, only to collide with a docking ship. He is propelled onto the bow of the ship and briefly gets a glimpse of a beautiful, young female pilot within before she closes the shield doors. The pilot then sends a com-link message to the disembarking captain, reminding him that they are on a time schedule. Cale meets ex-military officer Joseph Korso (Bill Pullman) (a former friend and confidant of Sam), a human captain who requests Cale's help to find the Titan. Korso says he worked with Sam on the Titan project. Skeptical and disheartened to hear that Korso was a friend of his father's, Cale refuses to cooperate and reunites with Tek in the galley who seems rather disinterested in Cale's complaints. The pilot, Akima, warns Korso that Drej fighters are on their way and they have limited time. Korso follows Cale into the galley and greets Tek as an old friend, much to Cale's astonishment.
Korso shows Cale how his ring contains a map to the ship. The ring projects a holographic map onto the palm of Cale's hand. Korso explains that the ring was coded to Cale's father's DNA and thence to Cale himself. The map is supposed to lead to where Sam hid the Titan and, if they find it before the Drej do, they will be able to give the human race something they haven't had in years; a new planet to call home. At that moment, two Drej soldiers enter the galley and immediately target Cale. Korso disables the artificial gravity generator at the back of the kitchen and he and Cale follow the cowardly cook (Jim Breuer) through an escape hatch. They make it to a warehouse and hijack a construction vehicle with the Drej in hot pursuit. Cale is injured in the escape and Korso pilots the vehicle straight through a closed dock and into space. He calls for Akima to pick them up as the windshield on the vehicle cracks. Korso kicks it out and uses a fire extinguisher to propel himself and Cale into the hold of his ship, the Valkyrie. Cale is introduced to the other members of Korso's alien crew; sly first mate Preedex "Preed" Yoa (Nathan Lane), eccentric astronomer Gune (John Leguizamo), cranky weapons expert, Stith (Janeane Garofalo) and another human, co-pilot Akima (Drew Barrymore), to whom Cale is attracted. Cale is brought to Gune who reads the map on his palm and determines that their next heading should be to Sesharrim, a planet that, as Korso recalls, is home to the ancient Gaoul race.
At Sesharrim, They find the remnants of a temple and are suddenly surrounded by silent, bat-like creatures. Before Korso can open fire, Akima determines that they are the Gaoul. The lead Gaoul approaches Cale and instructs him through pantomime to hold his palm up towards the planet's prominent star. Held against the sky, Cale sees the arrow on the map pointing towards the distant Andali Nebula where the Titan is surely hidden. The Drej again attacks the group and capture Cale and Akima (and take them to the mother ship). The Drej master eventually discards Akima, sending her off into space in a pod (where the crew finds her). Cale is then held before the Queen and forced to open his palm, giving the Drej a complete copy of the map detailing where the Titan is hidden. Cale is then sent into confinement. On board the Drej mothership, Cale discovers that he can manipulate the energy keeping him locked inside to release himself. He escapes to the main hangar and commandeers a Drej ship, flying out into space with a scouting party. He is able to catch up to the Valkyrie although the crew nearly mistakes him for another Drej scout. Safe again, Cale and Korso have a heart-to-heart and Cale is allowed to pilot the Valkyrie through a tract of space. Putting his piloting skills to the test, Cale playfully races a band of 'space angels', creatures that dwell in nebular matter. They figure out that the Titan is hidden in the ice rings around Tigrin. The ship reaches the human drifter colony called New Bangkok for repairs and preparation for the trip to the Titan. as Cale and Akima return to the ship with a few necessities, they overhear Korso speaking to a holographic link with the Queen Drej. Korso argues with her that Cale is his responsibility and he alone will use him to find the Titan, though the Queen asserts that, despite their agreement, the Drej will do whatever is necessary to assure the Titan's destruction. Cale and Akima turn away straight into Preed and he leads them inside where they are confronted by Korso. Korso admits that he made a deal with the Drej; that he would lead them to the Titan with the assurance of his own survival and for the hefty bounty. Cale and Akima refuse a plan by Korso and Preed (both working for the Drej) to destroy the Titan in exchange for money and escape from the ship.
No longer wanting to believe that the human race is destined for extinction, Cale fights Korso and Preed and manages to escape the ship with Akima, though she is wounded in the process. With Cale and Akima safely in New Bangkok, Korso takes the Valkyrie and leaves for the Andali Nebula, with Gune and Stith still unaware of Korso and Preed's treachery. Fortunately, the colony consists of several old spaceships, cobbled together from derelicts. With the help of the other residents, Cale and Akima repair and refit one of the ships, the Phoenix, and races off to find the Titan before Korso.
The Andali Nebula's center is a thick ring of ice crystals which makes for extremely tricky navigation. Korso and Preed struggle to maintain a steady course as Cale and Akima come up behind them. They use the reflective surface of the ice to create an illusion as they sneak right by the ship before igniting their engines full thrust and making a break for the Titan. The Valkyrie tries to follow, but the ever-shifting ice blocks their path. Cale and Akima make it to the center of the ice pack and finally discover the resting place of the Titan. They find a hatch to dock at and make their way inside. Akima finds a library stacked with vials that are revealed to be genetic information for all animals and plant life that were found on Earth. Meanwhile, the Valkyrie finds the Titan and docks at an alternate entrance. Korso and Preed prepare to disembark and instruct Gune and Stith to stay behind. However, the pair are suspicious of Korso's intentions. They are proven right when Preed sends a com-link message to Stith's watch which begins to beep in a countdown. Gune removes Stith's watch and runs off before it explodes. Stith awakes in the rubble unharmed but finds Gune injured. He announces that he needs to take a brief nap before he falls still. Cale and Akima find and explore the Titan with a holographic message left by Cale's dead father who reveals the true nature of Project Titan: The ship can create a completely new Earth-like planet with DNA samples of the Earth's plants and animals, requiring a huge input of pure energy (the Titan's reserves were depleted escaping Earth). The development of this technology is the reason the Drej feared humanity's potential enough to destroy Earth. Korso (who reaches the Titan eventually) confronts Cale and Akima and interrupt his father's message. Preed detonates a small bomb against Gune and Stith and betrays Korso, revealing a more tempting deal; Preed tries to live and get paid for helping the Drej find the Titan & murdering them all, but Korso kills him, drops Cale's ring and falls into the depths of the Titan, but he grabs onto a cable. The Drej arrive with their mother ship and attack the Titan. Surviving Preed's bomb, Stith arrives and the three work to defend the Titan from the Drej. Cale decides to re-configure the Titan to use the energy of the Drej to start the ship's reactor since they are pure energy. He activates two of the three circuit breakers channeling the Drej energy into the Titan. Cale dons a space suit and goes outside to fix it where Gune who also survived the bomb, uses the Valkyrie's guns to fight the Drej. As Cale reaches the breaker station, he is pinned by a Drej ship Gune shot down, but Korso uses a large laser rifle to free Cale. Aware that it may be possible to defeat the Drej after all, He tells him to get to the breaker while he provides him cover fire. Cale reaches the faulty breaker but cannot fix it. Telling Cale to activate the ship, Korso wedges his rifle between the gap and breakers and closes its circuit but losing his own life. Cale triggers the Titan's systems, which absorb the Drej, their Queen and their mothership, killing them. The Titan creates a new world using the elements surrounding it. Cale and Akima embrace in the rain on the newly created planet (which he names as "Planet Bob", despite Akima's protests), and as Stith and Gune bid their farewell from the Valkyrie, ships filled with human colonists arrive to start a new life on the planet. The humans from New Bangkok and other drifter colonies approach New Earth (Planet Bob) to establish their new home-world