movieId: 3114
title: Toy Story 2
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120363/
ratingValue: 
directors: Ash Brannon, John Lasseter, Lee Unkrich
actors: Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan Cusack, Kelsey Grammer, Don Rickles, Jim Varney, Wallace Shawn, John Ratzenberger, Annie Potts, Wayne Knight

synopsis:
A few years after the events in Toy Story, Buzz Lightyear goes on a mission to an alien planet to seek and destroy his arch nemesis Zurg. Buzz finds a whole colony of Zurg defense robots and destroys them by concentrating his laser on a crystal, which amplifies the laser in different directions and ends up destroying all the Zurg robots.
Buzz then enters an underground lair on the planet and is tracked by Zurg. Buzz goes after a battery pack, which is the source of Zurg's power, even as Zurg activates numerous fatal mechanisms in a bid to destroy Buzz. Buzz uses his utility belt to defeat the mechanisms but is eventually cornered by Zurg and is shot down.
Turns out this was Rex playing a Buzz Lightyear video-game and laments that with his tiny hands, he cannot shoot and jump at the same time. Woody (Tom Hanks) a cowboy doll, and Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen) a space ranger toy, have become the co-leaders of Andy's (John Morris) toys. Andy is a young boy who is the owner of Woody and his friends. Woody is panicking as he cannot find his hat. Turns out the hat was taken by Andy's pet dog Buster, who is now best friends with Woody. Woody prepares to go to cowboy camp with Andy, but his right arm is accidentally ripped. Andy decides to leave him behind, and his mother (Laurie Metcalf) puts him on a shelf. Woody was looking forward to this trip all year as this was the only time that it would be only Andy and him. He is devastated at being shelved and has a nightmare that Andy returns from camp and refuses to play with Woody as he is broken. The next day, Woody discovers that the penguin toy Wheezy (Joe Ranft) has been shelved for months due to a broken squeaker. The other toys include Bo Peep (Annie Potts) a sweet-nature porcelain figure, Mrs Potato Head (Estelle Harris), Sarge (R. Lee Ermey) an army man who acts as the general, and others. When Andy's mother puts Wheezy in a yard sale, Woody manages to call Andy's dog Buster to help him, and they get Wheezy back in the house. But Woody is left outside and found by toy collector Al. Andy's mom quickly plucks Woody from the collector's grasp, saying that Woody is not for sale. Al offers her $50 and even his watch for Woddy, but she refuses.
When Andy's mother is not looking, Woody is stolen by Al. Buzz Lightyear and the other toys recognize the thief from a commercial as Al McWhiggin (Wayne Knight), the greedy owner of a toy shop called Al's Toy Barn. The vehicle pulls away, but not before leaving behind a feather. Buzz also notes the license plate, which reads LZTYBRN. Buzz uses Mr Spell to help him decipher the license plate. Finally, he hits on the key: Al's Toy Barn. The feather was from Al's chicken suit that he uses in the Toy Barn's commercials aired on TV, which is where the toys had seen him.
The toys scan the television in Andy's room for a commercial advertising Al's Toy Barn. Etch-a-Sketch takes down the location, and Buzz jots it down on a post-it note. Buzz, Hamm (John Ratzenberger) a piggy bank, Mr. Potato Head (Don Rickles) a grouchy and grumpy Mr. Potato Head who is married to Mrs. Potato Head, Slinky Dog (Jim Varney) a Slinky Dachshund toy, and Rex (Wallace Shawn) a neurotic Tyrannosaurus toy, set out to rescue Woody. In Al's apartment, Woody learns that he is a valuable collectible based on a 1950s TV show called Woody's RoundUp, a popular children's Western series from the 1950s. Woody is set to be sold to a toy museum in Tokyo. The other toys from the show, Jessie (Joan Cusack) a cowgirl doll, Woody's horse Bullseye, and Stinky Pete (Kelsey Grammer) an elderly prospector doll, are excited to go. Stinky is still in his box and has never been opened. Woody watches episodes of the old television show in Al's apartment, but is shocked when one episode ends on a cliffhanger. The Prospector tells Woody that once public attention turned to astronauts, cowboys were out, and space toys were in. While initially delighted to meet them, Woody realizes that Al plans to sell the whole Woody's RoundUp collection to a museum abroad. Woody wants to return home because he is still Andy's toy. Jessie is upset because the museum is only interested in the collection if Woody is in it. Without him, they will be returned to storage. Suddenly Al returns, intending to get a group photo to send to the Toy Museum. In the process, he pulls off Woody's right arm. Al takes the arm and calls a toy repairman, while Woody freaks out over the loss of his arm. Later that evening, Al returns to the main room and falls asleep watching TV. Woody notices that his arm is in Al's pocket, and attempts to get it back. However, the VCR suddenly turns on, startling Al, and foiling Woody's plans. The next morning, Woody's arm is fixed. The cleaner paints over the "ANDY" scrawling on the bottom of Woody's boot, making Woody look just like new. Al then takes the photos he needs, and goes off to his toy store to fax the information over to Japan. Woody learns that Jessie was once the beloved toy of a child named Emily, who eventually outgrew her and gave her away. Stinky Pete warns him that the same fate awaits him when Andy grows up, whereas he will last forever in the museum. This convinces Woody, who now believes that all toys eventually get discarded by their owners, to stay. Meanwhile, Buzz and the other toys reach Al's Toy Barn. While searching the store for Woody, Buzz is imprisoned in a cardboard box by another Buzz Lightyear action figure with a utility belt (Utility Belt Buzz toy), who thinks he is a real space ranger. Utility Belt Buzz imprisons Andy's Buzz as an impostor. Utility Belt Buzz later meets Andy's other toys and, assuming they are on a mission to defeat his arch-nemesis Emperor Zurg (Andrew Stanton), accompanies them to Al's apartment. The new Buzz joins the other toys, who mistake him as their Buzz and, after discovering Al's plan, they make their way to his apartment. Back at Al's Toy Barn, the gang finds Al sending a fax to Japan before going home to pack for his trip to Tokyo. The group jumps into Al's satchel, sure that he'll lead them to Woody. Andy's Buzz escapes and follows the gang, inadvertently releasing a toy Zurg from its box. Zurg follows Buzz, intending to destroy him. Unfortunately for the toys, Al leaves his bag in the car, so they attempt to enter Al's building using the ventilation system and an opening into the apartment building's elevator. Eventually, they make it to Al's apartment. After the toys find Woody, the real Buzz rejoins them and proves that he is Andy's Buzz, but Woody refuses to return home. Woody pleads that he is living on borrowed time; any more damage and he could be thrown away. Buzz reminds Woody of "a toy's true purpose" and warns him that in the museum, he will never be played with by a child again. After they leave, Woody contemplates what Buzz said, and as an episode of Woody's Round-Up plays on the TV, Woody looks at his boot, and scrapes off the paint covering the name "ANDY." Woody suddenly has second thoughts, goes to the ventilation grate, and yells to Buzz that he's changed his mind, but then asks Jessie and Bullseye to come with him.
However, Stinky Pete prevents their escape because he wants to go to Japan, as he was unsold to children. The duplicate Buzz faces off against Zurg, but soon is shocked when the evil ruler proclaims that he is Buzz's father, and attempts to destroy him. Rex saves the day when he accidentally knocks Zurg off the elevator, defeating him. Al arrives and takes the Roundup toys with him, forcing Andy's toys to follow him while the new Buzz chooses to remain behind as he has found Zurg, and they are partaking in a father/son game of catch. Accompanied by three toy Aliens (Jeff Pidgeon), they steal a Pizza Planet delivery truck and follow Al to an airport. While Utility Belt Buzz fights and reconciles with Zurg, Andy's Buzz and the other toys pursue Al's suitcases into the airport. At the airport they enter the baggage handling system and free Woody. Stinky Pete rips Woody's right arm again and tries to mutilate him, but the plan is foiled when the rest of the group arrive. As Buzz holds the Prospector aloft, he rants that children destroy toys, and that someday they'll be tossed out and forgotten, rotting away in a landfill. Woody soon decides that the Prospector could benefit from a little 'playtime,' and the gang shoves him into a little girl's backpack. Upon receiving her backpack, the girl declares that the Prospector needs a makeover. They free Bullseye, but Jessie ends up on the plane bound for Japan. Riding on Bullseye, Woody and Buzz give chase, with Woody eventually making his way to the airplane. Jessie is pleased that Woody came to rescue her, but the joy soon turns to panic when the baggage doors close, and the plane begins to move. Woody and Jessie make their way out through an opening near the plane's front tires. Woody, Buzz, and Bullseye work together to save her just as the plane takes off. The toys then return home to Andy's house. When Andy returns home from the camp, he accepts Jessie, Bullseye, and the Aliens as his new toys, thinking his mother bought them, and repairs Woody's torn arm. Andy writes his name on the bottom of Jessie's and Bullseye's feet.
The toys learn from a commercial that Al's business has suffered due to failing to sell the Roundup toys. Woody tells Buzz that he is not worried about Andy discarding him because, when he does, they will always have each other for company. Meanwhile, Wheezy has been fixed.