movieId: 3039
title: Trading Places
year: 1983
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0086465/
ratingValue: 
directors: John Landis
actors: Denholm Elliott, Dan Aykroyd, Maurice Woods, Richard D. Fisher Jr., Jim Gallagher, Anthony DiSabatino, Bonnie Behrend, Sunnie Merrill, James Newell

synopsis:
Philadelphia is a bustling commercial center of the USA. People go about their daily lives, which are controlled by the actions and decisions of the few rich who act from behind the scenes. Due to income disparity the poor African American neighborhoods of the city exist next to the neighborhoods of the Uber rich. Duke brothers Randolph (Ralph Bellamy) and Mortimer (Don Ameche) own Duke & Duke, a successful commodities brokerage in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Even with a rich lifestyle, the brothers are shown to be misers, as they give a $5 Christmas bonus to their regular waiter at their club. Winthrope is their managing director, very well-mannered and educated. Louis lives in an opulent mansion and has a full-time butler named Coleman (Denholm Elliott) at his disposal. He is served breakfast in bed and receives a private shave in his saloon. He has an endless row of expensive and tailored suits and would not even open the door to his own car (the butler has to open it for him). Louis has a keen business sense and his trading tactics on Pork Bellies futures makes the company an extra $347,000. Louis notices that Mortimer has authorized a check for $50,000 to a person named Clarence Beeks but would not clarify what the payment is for. Holding opposing views on the issue of nature versus nurture, they make a wager and agree to conduct an experiment switching the lives of two people at opposite sides of the social hierarchy and observing the results. Randolph says that Winthorpe is the product of a good environment, but Mortimer argues that Winthorpe would succeed in any environment that he is put into. They witness an encounter between Louis Winthorpe III (Dan Aykroyd), engaged to the Dukes' grand-niece Penelope (Kristin Holby)-and a poor street hustler named Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy). Valentine runs into Winthrope in the street and as a result Winthrope's briefcase falls to the ground. Valentine picks it to and tries to return it to Winthrope.
Valentine is arrested at Winthorpe's insistence that Valentine tried to rob him. The Dukes decide to use the two men for their experiment. Randolph says that Valentine could run their company as well as Winthrope. He also argues that if Winthrope was to lose his job, his home, his fiance and his friends, he would take to a life of crime very easily. Winthorpe is publicly framed as a thief and drugs are planted on him (via Coleman who was briefed about the wager) when he is arrested. He is fired from his job, his bank accounts are frozen, and he is denied entry to the Duke-owned town-house where he resides. He befriends a prostitute named Ophelia (Jamie Lee Curtis) who allows him to stay at her apartment on the condition of receiving a reward once he re-establishes himself in society. Winthorpe soon finds himself ostracized and abandoned by Penelope and his former friends. Meanwhile, claiming to operate an assistance program for the underprivileged, the Dukes bail Valentine out of jail, install him in Winthorpe's position at the company and give him use of Winthorpe's home. Valentine is given a salary of $80,000 per year. Valentine quickly becomes well-versed in the business and acts well-mannered, even applying his street smarts to the job. During the firm's Christmas party, Winthorpe is caught planting drugs in Valentine's desk in a desperate attempt to get his job back. After Winthorpe flees, Valentine hides in a bathroom stall to smoke a joint he took from the desk. The Dukes enter the bathroom and, unaware of Valentine's presence, discuss in detail the outcome of their experiment and settle their wager for $1. Valentine overhears this exchange and seeks out Winthorpe. Winthorpe attempts suicide by overdosing on pills. Valentine, Ophelia and Winthorpe's former butler Coleman (Denholm Elliott) nurse him back to health and inform him of the Dukes' experiment. On television, they learn of a Clarence Beeks (Paul Gleason) transporting a secret report on orange crop forecasts. Winthorpe and Valentine recall large payments made to Beeks by Duke & Duke and realize that the Dukes are planning to obtain this report to corner the market on frozen orange juice. The group agrees to disrupt their plan as revenge. Learning of Beeks' travel plans, the four get aboard his train to switch the report in Beeks' possession with a forgery. Beeks uncovers their scheme and attempts to kill them. He fails and is subdued, and the group dress him in a gorilla costume and lock him in a cage with a real gorilla. They deliver the forged report to the Dukes in Beeks' place and collect the payment intended for him. After sharing a kiss with Ophelia, Winthorpe travels to New York City with Valentine, pooling the money with the life savings of Ophelia and Coleman to carry out their plan. On the commodities trading floor, the Dukes commit all their holdings to buying frozen concentrated orange-juice futures contracts; other traders follow their lead, inflating the price. Before the real crop report is broadcast, Valentine and Winthorpe sell futures heavily at the increased price. After the forecast that the orange crop will be normal, the price of orange-juice futures plummets. As the traders frantically sell their futures, Valentine and Winthorpe buy at the lower price from everyone except the Dukes, fulfilling the contracts they had short-sold earlier and turning an immense profit. The Dukes fail to meet a margin call, being left owing $394 million. The exchange manager orders their seats sold and their corporate and personal assets confiscated, effectively bankrupting them. Valentine and Winthorpe explain to the Dukes that they had made a wager on whether they could get rich while making the Dukes poor simultaneously. Valentine collects $1 from Winthorpe while Randolph collapses holding his chest and Mortimer shouts angrily at his brother about their failed plan, demanding the floor be reopened in a futile plea to recoup their losses. Beeks and the gorilla are loaded onto a ship heading for Africa. Meanwhile, Valentine, Winthorpe, Ophelia, and Coleman vacation on a luxurious tropical beach.