movieId: 2561
title: True Crime
year: 1999
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0139668/
ratingValue: 
directors: Clint Eastwood
actors: Clint Eastwood, Isaiah Washington, LisaGay Hamilton, James Woods, Denis Leary, Bernard Hill, Diane Venora, Michael McKean, Michael Jeter, Mary McCormack

synopsis:
Steve Everett (Clint Eastwood), an Oakland journalist recovering from alcoholism, is assigned to cover the execution of convicted murderer Frank Beechum (Isaiah Washington) following the death of Everett's colleague, Michelle Ziegler (Mary McCormack), who had originally been assigned to the story. Michelle had died in a car accident after having a few drinks with Steve at a local bar. It was raining, low visibility and Michelle was distracted fiddling with the car radio, due to which she met with an accident. Everett's editor Bob was reluctant to assign the story to him, as with Everett, every story turns into an investigative piece. In this case, Bob is worried that Everett will turn the story into a debate about human rights and the justification of death penalty in a modern society. Bob's boss Alan tells him that Everett is good. Everett had the reputation of busting the Mayor of New York, and the owner of his previous newspaper tried to kill the story as he was in cahoots with the Mayor. Everett didn't back down and instead quit the paper.
Meanwhile Everett was having an affair with Bob's wife Patricia (Laila Robins). Beechum is incarcerated at the San Quentin California State Prison. Beechum is an African American man is undergoing the final preparations before being taken to death row. Warden Luther Plunkitt is overseeing the arrangements for death row. Beechum has refused to confess the crime and maintains that he went to the store to purchase some steak sauce. Most people assume he is guilty due to his race and that the dead woman was a pregnant, young and white. The victim Amy Wilson lost her life for $96 that she had on her person. Everett investigates the background to the case and comes to suspect that Beechum has been wrongly convicted of murdering Amy Wilson (Marissa Ribisi). He gets permission from his editor Bob Findley's (Denis Leary) boss Alan Mann (James Woods) to investigate.
Everett is told that the boss would call the Governor, and that would do the job, if Everett gets hard proof. He thus has a little over 12 hours to confirm his hunch and save Beechum. It is noon, and Beechum will be executed at midnight. Everett is supposed to interview Beechum at around 4 30 PM. Unfortunately, this is also the day when Everett has promised his ex-wife Barbara (Diane Venora) to take his daughter Kate (Francesca Eastwood) to the zoo. Everett works hard to balance his priorities as he tried to meet the expectations of his little girl, and also trying to get to the bottom of the Beechum issue. Everett interviews a prosecution witness, Dale Porterhouse (Michael Jeter), who saw Beechum at the store with a gun. Dale claims that his engine overheated just outside the grocery store, and he went into the store to see Beechum standing over Amy's dead body. Everett is intrigued that Dale did not hear any gunshots. And if Dale did hear gunshots, he is intrigued that he still chose to walk into the grocery store after that. Dale testified that he did not hear the shots as his car radio and the AC was on.
Everett questions Porterhouse's account, saying that, because of the layout of the store, he could not have seen a gun in Beechum's hand. Everett confronts D.A. Cecelia Nussbaum (Frances Fisher), who reveals that, a young man, Warren, was interviewed and claimed he had stopped at the store to buy a soda and saw nothing. Everett decides that Warren, never called as a witness, is probably the real killer. He breaks into the deceased reporter's house, suspecting that she had been onto something and finds her file on Warren.
Meanwhile, Warden Luther Plunkett (Bernard Hill) also starts to have doubts about Beechum's guilt. Everett falls out with his bosses and is fired on the spot, but he points out that his contract entitles him to adequate notice. They ask him how much notice he requires, and, looking at his watch, he says 6 hours and 7 minutes. He tracks down Angela Russel (Hattie Winston), Warren's grandmother. She tells him that her grandson could not have been the murderer and berates him for the lack of interest from the press when Warren himself was killed in a mugging two years after Amy's murder. The prison chaplain misrepresents an exchange with Beechum as a confession to the crime. Everett hears about this on the radio and loses heart; on top of this, his wife Barbara (Diane Venora) has found out about his affair with his editor's wife and has turned him out of the house. He is about to start drinking again when he sees a piece on TV that shows a photograph of Amy wearing a locket, a locket he realizes he has seen before, being worn by Angela Russel. Everett drives back to Angela's house. When he tells her about the locket she realizes the truth: her grandson was indeed the killer. Everett now has to get Angela to the Governor's house in order to persuade him to order a stay of execution. As they approach the Governor's mansion, the first of three drugs used in the execution has already been injected into Frank's bloodstream and he has lost consciousness. The Governor calls, and the doctors try to revive him, while his wife Bonnie (LisaGay Hamilton) bangs on the window calling out for him to wake up. Six months later, a week before Christmas, Everett is out buying a stuffed hippo for his daughter, and the store's proprietor mentions that he is famous and may even win a Pulitzer. He catches sight of Frank and his family doing their Christmas shopping. Steve and Frank acknowledge each other, but Frank's daughter shouts for him to "come on," which Frank does.