movieId: 4557
title: Tucker: The Man and His Dream
year: 1988
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0096316/
ratingValue: 
directors: Francis Ford Coppola
actors: Jeff Bridges, Joan Allen, Martin Landau, Frederic Forrest, Mako, Elias Koteas, Christian Slater, Nina Siemaszko, Anders Johnson, Corin Nemec

synopsis:
Detroit engineer Preston Tucker (Jeff Bridges) has been interested in building cars since childhood. During World War II, he designed an armored car for the military and made money building gun turrets for aircraft next to his home in Ypsilanti, Michigan. Tucker is supported by his large extended family, particularly his wife Vera (Joan Allen), his sons Preston Jr. (Christian Slater) and Noble (Corky Nemec), and his daughter Marilyn Lee (Nina Siemaszko). After the war winds down, Tucker becomes inspired to build the car of the future. The Tucker Torpedo will feature revolutionary safety designs, including disc brakes, seat belts, a pop-out windshield, and headlights which swivel when the car turns. Tucker hires young designer Alex Tremulis (Elias Koteas) to help with the design and enlists New York financier Abe Karatz (Martin Landau) to arrange financial support. Raising money through the stock issue, Tucker and Karatz acquire the enormous Dodge Chicago Plant to being manufacturing. Abe hires Robert Bennington (Dean Goodman) to manage the new Tucker Corporation on a day-to-day basis. Launching the car of tomorrow in a spectacular way, the Tucker Corporation is met with enthusiasm from shareholders and the general public. However, the Tucker board of directors, unsure of his ability to overcome the technical and financial obstacles ahead, send Tucker on a publicity campaign and attempt to take complete control of the company. While Tucker travels the country, Bennington and directors change the design of the Tucker 48 to a more conventional design, eliminating the safety and engineering advances Tucker was advertising. At the same time, Tucker faces animosity from the Big Three automakers - General Motors, Ford and Chrysler - and from the authorities, led by Michigan Senator Homer S. Ferguson (Lloyd Bridges). Tucker returns from his publicity tour and confronts Bennington, who curtly informs him that he no longer has any power in the company to make decisions, and that the engine originally planned for the car is not viable. Tucker then receives a call from Howard Hughes (Dean Stockwell), who sends a private plane to bring Tucker to his aircraft manufacturing site. Hughes advises Tucker to purchase the Aircooled Motors Company, which can supply both the steel Tucker needs, as well as a small, powerful helicopter engine that might replace Tucker's original 589 power plant. Unable to change Bennington's design, Tucker modifies the new engine and installs it inside a test auto in the secrecy of his backyard tool-and-die shop. This prototype proves successful, both into durability and into crash-testing. However, Tucker is confronted with allegations of stock fraud. Ferguson's investigation with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission causes Karatz - once convicted of bank fraud - to resign out of fear that his criminal record will prejudice the hearings. The yellow press all but ruins Tucker's public image, but the courtroom battle is resolved when he parades his entire production of 50 Tucker 48s, proving that he has reached production status. After giving a speech to the jurors on how capitalism in the United States is harmed by endeavors of large corporations against small entrepreneurs like himself, Tucker is acquitted on all charges. However, the Tucker Corporation falls into bankruptcy, many Chicago natives invest in the company, and some bought dealerships. In the closing scene, Tucker's entire production line - 50 cars of the future - is driven through the street of downtown Chicago, admired by everyone as they passed. In the film's epilogue, Preston Tucker died of lung cancer six years after the courtroom trial. Although only 50 Tucker 48s were ever made, 46 of them remained roadworthy and being used as of 1988. All of Tucker's innovations - aerodynamic styling, padded dish, seat belts, fuel injection, and disc brakes - were gradually adopted by larger automakers and are found in nearly all modern cars today.