movieId: 1495
title: Turbo: A Power Rangers Movie
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120389/
ratingValue: 
directors: Shuki Levy, David Winning
actors: Jon Simanton, Kai Doi, Greg Collins, Steve Cardenas, Jason David Frank, Johnny Yong Bosch, Scott Fisher, Catherine Sutherland, Nakia Burrise

synopsis:
On the planet Liaria, Divatox, an intergalactic space pirate, is pursuing a wizard named Lerigot in search of his golden key, which would allow him to cross an inter dimensional portal and marry Maligore, an imprisoned demon who promises her immense wealth and power. Lerigot manages to get away from Divatox's forces and heads to Earth to find Zordon and his friend Alpha 5, but he ends up in Africa by mistake. Lerigot, who has been weakened by the sun's UV rays, wanders off with a group of chimpanzees. In the meantime, Divatox pursues Earth. Tommy Oliver, Adam Park, and Rocky DeSantos train for a charity fighting tournament in Angel Grove in an attempt to save the Youth Shelter, but Rocky injures his back in the process. Justin Stewart, a youngster who frequents the shelter and looks up to Rocky, is brought in by Katherine Hillard and Tanya Sloan. Justin follows the group and discovers they are Power Rangers as Rocky is transported to a hospital. To find Lerigot, Zordon dispatches Tommy and Katherine. After locating him, they head back to the Power Chamber. Farkus "Bulk" Bulkmeier and Eugene "Skull" Skullovitch are kidnapped by Divatox's nephew Elgar in search of two human sacrifices to bring Maligore back to life, but Divatox rejects them because they are not pure of heart. When Divatox spots Jason Lee Scott and Kimberly Hart scuba diving nearby, he captures them. Divatox contacts Lerigot while he is recuperating, claiming to have taken his family and demanding that he turn himself in. Jason and Kimberly are also used by Divatox to exert pressure on the Rangers. Elgar deceives the Rangers and takes Lerigot prisoner at the exchange site. In order to defeat Divatox, Zordon and Alpha develop new abilities for the Rangers. Using these new Turbo powers and new vehicle Turbo Zords, the Rangers make their way to a ship known as the Ghost Galleon. As he recovers, Justin, who has been given Rocky's Blue Ranger abilities, joins them. Jason and Kimberly devise a plan to get out of Divatox's submarine, but while Bulk, Skull, and Kimberly manage to get out, Jason is stuck and abandoned. Divatox destroys the Ghost Galleon and the Rangers barely escape after they make it to the island where Maligore is after navigating the Nemesis Triangle. Kimberly is taken back and taken to Divatox by the island's tribal inhabitants, who consider Maligore to be their deity. At the volcano temple, the Rangers are unable to free Jason and Kimberly before Maligore possesses them and viciously attacks them; however, they are successful in freeing Lerigot and his wife Yara, who reverse the possession. After sacrificing her nephew, a frustrated Divatox manages to bring Maligore back to life. To battle Maligore, the Rangers joined their Turbo Zords to create the Turbo Megazord. They vanquish him while Rygog and Divatox escape, swearing to exact revenge. Jason, Kimberly, Lerigot, Yara, Bulk, and Skull are picked up by the Rangers and taken back to Angel Grove. Jason defeats Rocky in the competition, earning the funds to keep the shelter afloat.