movieId: 4338
title: Twelve O'Clock High
year: 1949
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0041996/
ratingValue: 
directors: Henry King
actors: Gregory Peck, Hugh Marlowe, Gary Merrill, Millard Mitchell, Dean Jagger, Robert Arthur, Paul Stewart, John Kellogg, Robert Patten, Lee MacGregor

synopsis:
In 1949, American attorney and former U.S. Army Air Forces officer Harvey Stovall (Dean Jagger) is vacationing in Great Britain when he spies a familiar Toby Jug in an English antique shop. Stovall learns that it came from Archbury, an airfield where Stovall served during World War II. Stovall is convinced that it is the same jug which used to stand on the mantel of the airfield's officers' club.
He buys it and bicycles out to an abandoned airfield, the former USAAF Station Archbury, where he served with the 918th Bomb Group during World War II. The story then flashes back to USAAF Archbury, c. 1942. Colonel Keith Davenport (Gary Merrill) is the commander of the 918th Heavy Bombardment Group, a Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress unit based at (the fictional) USAAF Archbury. Having recently arrived and being thrown into action, the 918th has suffered heavy losses, gaining the reputation as a "hard luck group" suffering from poor morale.
One reason is the US strategy of daylight precision bombing and the corresponding high loss rate it causes to the American bombers to enemy antiaircraft fire and enemy fighters, the latter being aggravated by the fact that there are not yet any US or Allied fighters with sufficient range to escort the bombers to and from their targets. After a particularly disastrous mission, group commander Colonel Keith Davenport appears exhausted and demoralized. His defeatist attitude spreads to other senior leaders of the group, including his Air Exec, Lieutenant Colonel Ben Gately.
Davenport is troubled by his losses. When he is ordered to fly one mission at low altitude to increase accuracy, Davenport rushes to headquarters and confronts his friend, Brigadier General Frank Savage (Gregory Peck), the A-3 (Assistant Chief of Staff for Operations) of VIII Bomber Command.
Savage believes that Davenport has become emotionally too close to his men and may no longer be fit to command. Savages visit Major General Patrick Pritchard (Millard Mitchell), commanding general of VIII Bomber Command, Eighth Air Force to share his concerns, who decides to visit the 918th. After interviewing Davenport and others, and discussion that ends in Davenport's refusal to demote failed navigator Lt. Zimmerman, Pritchard recognizes that Pritchard realizes that Savage is right, and that Davenport is the problem.
He relieves Davenport of command and reassigns him. The 918th is given to Savage. Savage finds his new command in disarray and begins to address the discipline problems; the men begin to detest him. Savage is particularly hard on Lieutenant Colonel Ben Gately (Hugh Marlowe), the Group Air Executive Officer, placing him under arrest for being Absent Without Leave during the command change. Major Joe Cobb (John Kellogg), one of Savage's squadron commanders, takes Gately's place as Air Exec. Gately, a graduate of West Point, grandson of a general officer and son of General Tom Gately, is assigned as the commander of a bomber named the "Leper Colony", to which Savage assigns those he considers substandard. Savage demoting Gately to aircraft commander and insisting that he henceforth fly every mission. Savage conducts a series of training missions and waits for an opportunity to restore the group's pride in its abilities.
Upset by Savage's stern leadership, all of the 918th's pilots apply for transfers. Savage asks the Group Adjutant, Major Stovall, to delay processing their applications to buy some time. Stovall goes along, giving Savage more than a week. An attorney in civilian life, Stovall knows how to use bureaucratic red tape to his advantage.
The 918th, after hasty refresher training, resumes combat flying. The 918th's increased skill and discipline become obvious to the enemy, who attack other groups and leave the 918th alone. The men begin to change their minds about Savage after he leads them on a mission in which the 918th is the only group to bomb the target and all of the aircraft return safely. All the groups were ordered to abort their mission due to heavy weather. Savage ignores the recall order.
The word gets around that Pritchard personally chewed Savage out for his claim of "radio malfunction" as an excuse to ignore the recall order.
Savage instead persuades Pritchard to recommend the group for a Distinguished Unit Citation. When the pilots continue to ask about their transfer applications, Savage tries to enlist a young pilot, Medal of Honor- recipient Lieutenant Jesse Bishop (Robert Patten) to help him change their attitudes and who is who is Savage's eyes and ears among the combat aircrews. Bishop eventually comes to believe in the general, and when the Inspector General arrives to check out the unrest, Bishop convinces the others to withdraw their requests.
Savage also softens his attitude towards the men as he becomes more closely involved with them. Gately goes on to win Savage's respect and admiration by demonstrating extraordinary leadership and courage in combat.
Later, Savage learns that Gately has been hospitalized, having flown three missions with a chipped vertebra that caused him acute pain. This brings about a "rapprochement" between him and Savage. As the air war advances deeper into Germany, missions become longer and riskier, with enemy resistance intensifying. Many of Savage's best men, including Bishop, are shot down or killed. Pritchard tries to get Savage to return to a staff job at VIII Bomber Command. Savage refuses because he feels that the 918th is not quite ready to do without him yet. Reluctantly, Pritchard leaves Savage in command. The first of these missions, aimed at destroying Germany's ball bearing industry, has the Luftwaffe throwing everything available at the bomber force. Although the target is hit, the 918th takes a beating, losing six of 21 B-17s. Savage is shaken when he witnesses Cobb's airplane being blown up by a direct flak hit. Savage concludes that a second strike on the same target is necessary. With the death of Cobb, Savage reinstates Gately as Air Exec. The next day, Savage becomes disoriented and erratic and is unable to haul himself up into his B-17. Gately takes over. Savage becomes nearly catatonic. Only when the bombers return after destroying the target, does he regain his composure. He says a few words and falls asleep.
The story then returns to 1949 and Stovall. Stovall returns to his bicycle and pedals away with the Toby Jug.