movieId: 2582
title: Twin Dragons
year: 1992
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0105399/
ratingValue: 
directors: Ringo Lam, Hark Tsui
actors: Jackie Chan, Maggie Cheung, Teddy Robin Kwan, James Wong, Sylvia Chang, Kirk Wong, David Chiang, Mabel Cheung, Alfred Cheung, Lung-Wei Wang

synopsis:
Judwaa's original movie In 1963, a Hong Kong couple (Sylvia Chang and James Wong) are doting on their newborn twin boys at the hospital. Meanwhile, a dangerous gang leader named Crazy Kung (Kirk Wong) is being transported as a captive in the same hospital. Crazy Kung escapes and attempts to take one of the twins hostage, and in the ensuing chaos the twins are permanently separated. One of them, named Ma Yau, is taken to America by his parents and grows up to be a concert pianist and conductor. The other, Ma Wan, is found and raised by an alcoholic woman named Tsui (Mabel Cheung), and becomes a street racer and martial artist named Bok Min. For years, neither of them is aware that he has a twin brother. 28 years later, the twins' (Jackie Chan) lives intersect again: Bok Min and his best friend Tarzan (Teddy Robin) get mixed up with a dangerous gang, while Ma Yau prepares to conduct a major concert in Hong Kong. In addition, the twins gain romantic interests:
Yau is in HK for a concert and becomes acquainted with Tong Sum (Nina Li Chi), a young woman from a respectable family who has a secret passion for fighter types. Tong's father is pushing her to have an affair and marriage with Yau. Tong is a trained nurse, but her father made her quit her job so she could focus on Ma Yau.
Yau is sympathetic to Tong and ends up giving her a back massage instead. Bok Min meets Barbara (Maggie Cheung), a club singer Tarzan is interested in. Bok Min had rescued Barbara from Boss Wing (Barbara was the singer in Wing's club and was being disrespected as a prostitute), as Tarzan was interested in her. Bok Min fights a huge horde of Wing's men in attempt to rescue Barbara. Barbara ends up being attracted to Bok Min instead and says that she does not even know Tarzan. Bok Min and Tarzan are captured by Wing, who wants to break Tarzan's leg. Tarzan pleads that he is a road racer. This piques Wing's interest as he is also a gambler at heart. Bok Min says that he is the best driver in Macau.
Bok Min is challenged to a race by the gangster boss Wing (Alfred Cheung), with stakes of $300K. Bok Min and Tarzan can't secure a car for the race and decide to leave for mainland China to escape Wing. The boat owner double crosses Bok Ming and Tarzan and calls Wing. Wing's men confront Bok Min and after a lengthy boat chase, Bok Min and Tarzan escape, but the boat is destroyed. Eventually, the twins meet and discover that they share a strange connection with each other (One can feel what the other is doing and feeling).
Bok Min and Ma Yau eat lunch at the same restaurant with Barbara and Tong respectively. Tong's boyfriend Rocky (Jamie Luk) and attacks Bok Min, thinking he is with Tong. Meanwhile Barbara leaves with Ma Yau in his car, and Ma Wan perplexed. Bok Min fights Rocky and this impresses Tong. Tong ends up having sex with Bok Min, while Barbara shares a kiss with Ma Yau, after he impresses her with his piano skills.
Eventually they both run into each other in the hotel's bathroom, before Ma Wan's press conference. As a result, a string of hilarious mix-ups ensues when Ma Yau is accidentally enlisted by the gangsters (With Boss Wing, who threatens to kill Barbara and Tarzan if Ma Yau refuses to cooperate) to participate as an escape driver in the liberation of none other than Crazy Kung.
Bok Min in turn is forced to conduct Yau's concert (which becomes a smash hit despite him having absolutely no musical talent); and the two of them end up with the other's girl as their respective love interest.
Barbara and Tong figure out that Bok Min and Ma Yau are twins and there has been a big case of mistaken identity so far. Eventually, things come to a head when the gangsters kidnap Tarzan to make Ma Yau surrender a briefcase meant for Crazy Kung, which Ma Yau had accidentally nabbed. The twins join up to defeat the gang that has turned their lives upside down. Ma Yau reaches the dockyard with Kung's briefcase, while Tarzan is suspended from a magnetic crane. Bok Min attacks from behind, takes control of the crane and positions it above water, so when Kung release the magnet, Tarzan falls safely in the water. In a showdown in a vehicle testing center (Bok Min is locked inside a cage with a weak opponent, while Ma Yau is outside facing the wrath of Kung's army of goons. So basically, Bok Min beats the hell out of the cage guy, and Ma Yau "follows" his steps to beat the living daylights out of all the goons on the outside of the cage) Crazy Kung dies in a runaway crash test car. The film ends with the impending double wedding of the twins to their girls and Bok Min's introduction to his real parents. When Bok Min gets cold feet and Ma Yau goes looking for him, a final gag falls into place when the wedding guests catch the two twins together and are unable to tell them apart.