movieId: 4759
title: Two Can Play That Game
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0269341/
ratingValue: 
directors: Mark Brown
actors: Vivica A. Fox, Morris Chestnut, Anthony Anderson, Gabrielle Union, Wendy Raquel Robinson, Tamala Jones, Mo'Nique, Ray Wise, Bobby Brown, Dondré T. Whitfield

synopsis:
Shante Smith (Vivica A. Fox) is a woman who gives advice on how to keep a man in check. Her ideals are challenged when her man, an attorney, named Keith Fenton (Morris Chestnut), threatens to stray. Smith is a well-educated woman who feels that when it comes to men and their tricks, she knows them all. Shante is a senior advertising executive at Parker & Long agency. Keith is an attorney and was accomplished at sports in his prime. Shante says that men stay in line during the winter as they need the "indoor activity", but every year as spring arrives, it is breakup season. This is the time of the year when women start wearing short skirts, skimpy clothes and cause men to lose their mind. Shante says that she specializes in keeping men in line, who are unable to say no.
Shante says that if men act right, women will automatically give them all the love and respect that they need. Shante's girlfriend Karen (Wendy Raquel Robinson) was cheated on by her boyfriend Michael (Bobby Brown). Karen was now living with Shante, and Shante was guiding her on the next steps. Karen is a top executive at a big engineering firm. Michael was a car mechanic with crooked teeth. Karen was charmed by him and in return Karen paid for his dental work and a completely new wardrobe. Michael asked Karen to marry him, but then started to take her for granted. It was 2 years since Michael proposed marriage and was now avoiding her.
Shante asked Karen to kick Michael out. Tracey (Tamala Jones) is Shante's other friend, and her man Dwain (Dondre T. Whitfield) had roving eyes. Shante asks Tracey to put a Panty in the couch (that is not her own) and pull it out in front of Dwain to check his reaction. Dwain claims that they belong to his sister, who came to do laundry.
Diedre (Mo'Nique) is Shante's other friend whose boyfriend Tyrone is always borrowing money from her and losing it in gambling.
Shante says that before the actual cheating there are excuses like "I was working late", "I got new underwear as the old ones were worn out", Lost ring, trying to get back in shape. Connie "Conny" Spalding (Gabrielle Union) works in the same office as Keith and is the Vice President of Marketing. Conny is drop dead gorgeous.
When Keith, is caught red-handed stepping out with a coworker, Shante institutes her "Ten Day Plan" to get her man in line. Keith had told Shante that he was "working late", but Shante finds him on the dance floor with a woman Julie (Natashia Williams) at a club, where she was with her girls. Shante casually confronts Keith (without making a scene) but hides the situation from her girlfriends. She says that the girlfriends will only give her bad advice, that will shake her confidence. On the other end, Shante's boyfriend Keith is being led by his friend Tony (Anthony Anderson), who thinks he knows all the tricks that women play. Tony says that Keith went out with Julie as he wanted to have sex with her.
Tony tells Keith not to call Shante first as whoever calls first, loses ground. Keith calls the next day, taking his time as Tony taught him. But Shante rushes him saying that a client is coming in and asks him to meet at dinner. At dinner, Shante is deliberately 15 mins late to build anxiety. Kieth admits that he was wrong, as guided by Tony. Shante says that she wants some time apart to test the waters. Shante now decides to punish Keith was his stray behavior. She goes shopping with her friends, while she knows that Keith is feeling miserable. Keith calls twice, and Shante screens him. Keith even gets tickets to her favorite concert, but Shante doesn't budge. As Keith is still playing it cool, Shante ups the ante by hugging an acquaintance in church, while Keith's friends are watching. The friends tell Tony about the "hug". Keith calls Shante 8 times ad she still screens him. Keith misses work and Tony realizes that Keith is now hurting. Keith goes over to Shante's place, but Shante had already anticipated this. Keith tries to seduce Shante and when she pulls back, they have an argument, and Shante ends up yelling at Keith. Now the frustration is transferred over to Shante.
Keith goes dancing with Conny. It is evident that Conny is attracted to Keith and wants to have sex with him. The next evening, Shante dresses all sexy and goes over to Keith's with the excuse of returning his remaining stuff. Keith begs her to come inside. Shante gets Keith all hot and heavy and then leaves in the middle of foreplay. Tony tells Keith that now Shante has turned the tables on him, and she has the power. Tony says that Keith is now fighting for all mankind as if Shante gets away with her tricks, soon women all the world will be trying the same thing to get their men under control.
Keith decides to go to a party with Conny, knowing that Shante would be there. Shante is mortified to see Keith with Conny, as she expected Keith to return to her begging for forgiveness. Shante tells Conny to back off, but she refuses and tells Shante to control her own man. Shante's girlfriends were also at the party, and they see Keith with Conny. They heighten the situation by panicking and forcing Shante to make bad decisions.
To counter Keith, Shante brings her own guy named Calvin to the party. She pretends to have a flat tire and reels in a smooth looking guy. Shante spends the entire party talking to this guy and then takes him to a quiet corner of the party. Keith confronts Shante and says that she is back to playing her games. Shante ignores Keith and drops a condom from her purse, leading Keith to believes that she will have sex with Calvin. Keith tells Shante that if she leaves with Calvin, he will sleep with Conny. Shante takes a gamble and walks out, hoping that Keith will come back to her. When Calvin drops her home, she bids goodbye to him. To Shante's shock, Keith never arrives. She goes to bar, where she finds Keith drinking alone. Shante admits that she was trying to control Keith with her rules. Keith admits that he really loves Shante and they get back together.