movieId: 5364
title: Unfaithful
year: 2002
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0250797/
ratingValue: 
directors: Adrian Lyne
actors: Diane Lane, Erik Per Sullivan, Richard Gere, Olivier Martinez, Myra Lucretia Taylor, Michelle Monaghan, Chad Lowe, Joseph Badalucco Jr., Erich Anderson, Damon Gupton

synopsis:
Edward (Richard Gere) and Connie Sumner (Diane Lane) live in upscale Westchester County, New York with their 8-year-old son, Charlie (Erik Per Sullivan). Edward has a large home, surrounded by nature, a loving wife and a healthy son. By all indications, the family looks happy and satisfied. They have a maid named Gloria (Myra Lucretia Taylor). Connie decides to go shopping on a very windy day. Her hands are full of bags, and she is not able to hail a cab. Connie was shopping for Charlie's upcoming birthday celebrations the following week.
While shopping in SoHo, the wind knocks Connie into a man named Paul Martel (Olivier Martinez), and they fall over. Connie injures her leg (and her knees are bleeding), and Paul offers to provide first aid at his apartment which is in the building next to them. At his apartment, Paul offers to let Connie use his bathroom to clean her knees. Paul is a book dealer, and his apartment is full of all types of books. Paul is much younger (he is 27 years old), he is physically very fit, has a foreign accent. Paul also speaks French. He is very different to Edward who only talks to Connie about missed stock investment opportunities. Paul cleans and ices her leg, then puts his hand on hers, as she was wearing a short skirt, indicating that he is attracted to her.
Connie gives him her first name only. Paul insists that Connie take a book before she leaves, pointing out a passage about seizing the moment. His number is inside the book. Connie later calls him from Grand Central Terminal thanking him for his help and asking for his address, so she could send a wine bottle over. Paul invites her over, and they flirt again. Paul holds Connie's hand and guides it over a book written in Braille. On her third visit, they dance and have sex. On her train ride home, Connie is embarrassed about the events of that afternoon, but she is also thrilled and exhilarated as she has not had such a sensual encounter in ages with Edward. Throughout the foreplay, Connie's body was trembling with anticipation as Paul put his hands all over her body. Connie was crying and laughing at the same time. Back home, Connie frequently masturbates to the memory of having sex with Paul.
Connie keeps finding excuses to continue visiting Paul. Charlie's birthday is celebrated at home as time flies.
Connie and Paul have lunch at a local diner, where a coworker Bill (Chad Lowe) of Edward sees them. Now, when Edward tries to initiate sex with her, she politely declines and goes to bed.
Edward becomes suspicious when he notices Connie's satin lingerie and catches her in a lie. Edward wanted to have lunch with Connie, but she says that she has a facial appointment at a salon at that time. Edward calls the salon later and finds out that there was no appointment in Connie's name. While going to meet Paul, Connie meets her friends Tracy (Kate Burton) & Sally (Margaret Colin), who drag her to a cafe for coffee. Connie calls Paul from the cafe and says that she is stuck with her friends. Paul arrives at the cafe and proceeds to have sex with Connie in the bathroom stall. Later, Tracy admits to having an affair a few years ago that ended her marriage. Edward fires an employee Bill for perceived disloyalty. Edward had found out that Bill was interviewing with other companies for employment opportunities. The employee, who saw Connie and Paul together, tells Edward to look at his own family. Edward hires a private investigator named Frank (Dominic Chianese) and is devastated to see photos confirming the affair. One day, Connie forgets to pick up Charlie from school and realizes she cannot carry on the affair anymore. She plans to end her affair with Paul. After doing a grocery shopping errand, she drives over to Paul's home to tell him the news but spots him with another woman. She confronts him, and they later have an argument. She questions him about the number of women he is seeing. Paul contradicts himself and claims the other woman is only a friend. However, Connie sees through the lie. She mentions that their affair is over and pushes him out of her way. Connie leaves his apartment, but he catches up and forces himself on her. She tries to fight him off and pleads with him to stop. However, still realizing her attraction to Paul, Connie forgives him. She eventually surrenders herself to Paul and has sex with him in the hallway. Connie leaves, missing Edward. Paul lets Edward in, and Edward finds a snow globe he gave Connie. He fractures Paul's skull with it, killing him. While cleaning up the evidence, he overhears Connie's voice message ending the affair. Edward erases it and puts Paul's body in the trunk of his car before dumping it in a landfill. NYPD detectives Dean (Zeljko Ivanek) & Mirojnick (Gary Basaraba) find Connie's number at Paul's and visit the Sumners'. Paul's estranged wife had reported him missing. Connie is surprised that Paul was married and claims that she barely knew him. The cops return when Paul's body is found. At the dry cleaner, Connie finds the photos of her and Paul in Edward's clothes. At a party that night, she finds the snow globe back in their collection. When she confronts Edward, he reveals that he knew all along about her infidelity. Edward breaks down while mentioning how hard he worked to give her and Charlie a better life. He then accuses her of being ungrateful and throwing away all of his hard work for an affair. Edward confesses that he wanted to kill her, not Paul. Days later, Connie discovers a hidden compartment in the snow globe, where years earlier, Edward placed a photograph of them and infant Charlie, with the message 'To My Beautiful Wife, the Best Part of Every Day!' Realizing how much he loved her, she burns the incriminating photographs. Edward says that he will turn himself in, but she objects. They return to a normal life together. Returning home one evening, Edward stops at a red light. Connie falls into an escape fantasy that they could leave the country and assume new identities, and Edward agrees it sounds perfect. Consoling her as she cries, it is revealed that Edward stopped next to a police station.