movieId: 1515
title: Volcano
year: 1997
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120461/
ratingValue: 
directors: Mick Jackson
actors: Tommy Lee Jones, Anne Heche, Gaby Hoffmann, Don Cheadle, Jacqueline Kim, Keith David, John Corbett, Michael Rispoli, John Carroll Lynch, Marcello Thedford

synopsis:
In downtown Los Angeles, an earthquake strikes. An earthquake strikes the city of Los Angeles. Mike Roark (Tommy Lee Jones), head of the city's Office of Emergency Management, insists on coming to work to help out with the crisis, even though he has taken vacation with his daughter Kelly (Gaby Hoffmann). Roark hires Anita (Susie Essman) as the babysitter for Kelly, while he is away for work.
The office of emergency management is a permanent division of the city of LA. In the event of an emergency of natural disaster, the director of the division has the powers to command and control all the resources of the city. His associate Emmit Reese (Don Cheadle) notes the quake caused no major damage on the city, but seven utility workers are later burned to death in a storm drain at MacArthur Park. Despite the city's Department of Public Works insistence that the incident had nothing to do with the tremor and was just an accident. The PWD supervisor says that the workers hit a steam pocket and got scalded without warning, but Roark himself looks at the injuries and knows that such burns cannot be caused by steam. Roark tries to halt the subway lines which run parallel to where the mishap took place as a precaution. Metro Chairman Stan Olber (John Carroll Lynch) though refuses, feeling there is no threat to the trains. Olber says that people depend on the subways to get back home and he is reluctant to shut it down unless there is concrete evidence of any danger to the trains. Against regulations, Roark and a colleague Gator Harris (Michael Rispoli) venture down the storm sewer in the park to investigate. Roark takes this risk as he did not want to wait 3 days before getting a report from the PWD. They are nearly burned to death when hot gases suddenly flood the storm drain. The temperature rises to an extent that it kills all the rats in the drain and almost melts the suits worn by Roark and Gator.
Roark exits the tunnels and tells Emmet to close the subway line and to find a Geologist. Geologist Dr. Amy Barnes (Anne Heche) believes a volcano may be forming near the city with magma flowing underground but cannot come up with enough evidence for Roark to take action. Her only data point is that the water in the lake at MacArthur Park has gone up in temperature from 62 degrees to 68 degrees in 12 hours. Barnes says that it takes a geological event to do this.
She asks for time to collect samples from the storm drain, but Roark cannot permit that as it is already too dangerous. Early in the morning, Dr. Barnes and her assistant Rachel (Laurie Lathem) go back to MacArthur Park to investigate the scene of the accident. After descending into the storm sewer, they discovered a crack in the ground which released the gases earlier. While they are taking soil samples, a massive earthquake strikes, and Rachel is killed when she falls into the crack.
Near the La Brea Tar Pits, smoke rises out along with lava bombs. Steam explodes from the sewer system sending steel grates flying into the air, while a subway train filled with passengers' derails underground.
Roark decides to bring his daughter to work. Nearby, a newly formed volcano erupts from the tar pits and lava begins to flow freely through the city's boulevards. Roark and Kelly witness the calamity while driving through the city streets. Roark calls Emmet at the Division and asks him to locate Barnes. The lava incinerates everything in its path and kills two firefighters in an overturned fire truck. The Roarks become separated, as Kelly is injured when a lava bomb burns her leg and is taken to Cedars-Sinai Hospital along with other patients in the care of Dr. Jaye Calder (Jacqueline Kim). Roark and Dr. Barnes devise a plan to organize the stacking of concrete barriers at the intersection of Wilshire Boulevard and Fairfax Avenue to create a Cul-De-Sac to pool the lava. The authorities then dump massive amounts of water from helicopters on it to form a crust. The operation is successful, but Dr. Barnes later theorizes that the magma is still flowing underground in one of the subway tunnels, heading north. She calculates that the main eruption will occur at the Beverly Center which is right where Cedars-Sinai is located. After calculating the speed of the flowing lava, determining the lava will reach the end of the tunnel in thirty minutes. Meanwhile, Olber leads a team through an underground tunnel to the derailed train to look for survivors. They save everyone, but Olber notices the conductor is still missing and goes back to find him. He finds the conductor alive but unconscious just as the lava reaches the train and begins flowing underneath it. Olber is melted after saving the conductor. Through Roark's direction, explosives are used to create channels in the street to divert the flow of lava into Ballona Creek, which will later flow into the Pacific Ocean. But Dr. Barnes deduces through a geological map that the street is sloping in the opposite direction. Mike devises another plan to demolish a 22-story condominium building to block the lava's path from flowing towards the hospital and the rest of the West Side of Los Angeles, redirecting it into a nearby storm drain. As the lava arrives, Mike's co-worker Gator and an LAPD Bomb Squad officer (trapped under debris) sacrifice their lives to detonate the final explosive charge. Mike then spots Kelly nearby, trying to retrieve a little boy she was watching who wandered off; the two are in the direct path of the collapsing building. Mike barely manages to save them from being crushed as the building collapses. The plan succeeds, and the lava flows directly into the ocean. As it begins raining, the trio emerges from the rubble unscathed and reunites with Amy before heading home. At the tar pits, the volcano has taken shape above ground and has since been named "Mount Wilshire." As the movie concludes, it remains active.