movieId: 6210
title: Volcano High
year: 2001
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0301429/
ratingValue: 
directors: Tae-gyun Kim
actors: Jang Hyuk, Shin Min-a, Kim Soo-ro, Kwon Sang-woo, Kong Hyo-jin, Jung Sang-hoon, Kim Hyeong-jong, Chae Shi-ah, Huh Joon-ho

synopsis:
Chinese Storyline
URL: img230.imageshack.us/img230/2679/hecatemjf.jpg === Volcano High reaches its 108th year (anniversary). The headmaster (Wa-San-Go) has got a book, "Secret Manuscript". The "Wa-San-Go" students train themselves to steal this book, from headmaster... Kim Kyang-Soo, who had transferred school for 7 times, inside his 8th high school... Chemistry Lesson... The teacher writes an "X" on the blackboard, then he turn his head, and find that Kyang-Soo was sleeping. "How many times had I told you, don't sleep in lessons!" Teacher threw his chalk to Kyang-Soo, but Kyang-Soo use his power to stop the chalk, in front of Kyang-Soo...Kyang-Soo return the chalk and injure the teacher... Kyang-Soo expelled from school...decide to continue his study (choose 9th High School) to "Wa-San-Go" (Volcano High). The teachers and students, inside "Wa-San-Go", are skilled martial experts. Kyang-Soo was shocked of seeing the skills of some of the people there. There is a triad gang, head by Jang-Rhang (Dark Oxen, Wa-San-Go), who always beat people for fun. Kyang-Soo had also met "Icy Jade", the prettiest girl in Wa-San-Go, who is good at sword ... Song Hak-Rim (Kwon Sang Woo), who is also good in tea-roasting, had just finished roasting a bottle of tea-leaves. Hak-Rim leave the "Tea Room" and fight with Kyang-Soo, and found that Kyang-Soo isn't an ordinary student, and even ask where did Kyang-Soo learn such a good martial skills. Kyang-Soo defeated Hak-Rim's record by injuring Hak-Rim, Hak-Rim was compelled to the Medical Inspection Room to cure his wound, made by Kyang-Soo. Once Hak-Rim arrived, many students got shocked of seeing Hak-Rim... After Hak-Rim recovered, he took a bottle of tea-leaves, and remember that he has to hand the bottle to the headmaster...Hak-Rim ask the vice principal to give the bottle to the principal. Meanwhile, it's the LUNCH TIME of the "Wa-San-Go" students. Jang-Rhang walked forward, find a student eating a chinese cuisine, and pull him for a fight. Hak-Rim came by, and told Jang-Rhang that "Fighting inside canteen is prohibited", and stop the fight. Jang-Rhang decide to retaliate, ask his gang-slaves to use a bottle of poison-leaves, to replace Hak-Rim's tea (give to principal). The principal got killed by the poison from the poison-leaves. The vice principal got a paper-note and read... "Suspect:
(1) Song Hak-Rim
(2) Vice Principal Hak-Rim is being called, and got jailed. Some females, include "Icy Jade", feel that Hak-Rim is innocent, and began to oppose Jang-Rhang. The females formed a female-only martial groups, for the future preparation against Jang-Rhang... One day, Jang-Rhang suddenly challenged others by declaring a "2-day notice" challenge, others (include the girl-group) prepared. When Jang-Rhang declare that it's actually about, "tell Icy Jade that he loves her" ...Icy Jade refused. Icy Jade, with her female friend, visited Hak-Rim in jail. Hak-Rim, "I had battle with Kyang-Soo before principal's deceased. Kyang-Soo's exceptional...! Bring Kyang-Soo!" Hak-Rim fight with Kyang-Soo, reconnecting Kyang-Soo's pulse, make Kyang-Soo the best fighter of "Wa-San-Go". Because of Kyang-Soo's help, "Icy Jade" (prettiest girl) doesn't need to be expelled from "Wa-San-Go", she began to love Kyang-Soo. Since that time, when Kyang-Soo battle with Jang-Rhang, Kyang-Soo could defeat Jang-Rhang without being defeated... Finally, Kyang-Soo succeeded to graduate from High School, without being expelled!