movieId: 4007
title: Wall Street
year: 1987
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0094291/
ratingValue: 
directors: Oliver Stone
actors: Charlie Sheen, Tamara Tunie, Franklin Cover, Chuck Pfeiffer, John C. McGinley, Hal Holbrook, James Karen, Leslie Lyles, Michael Douglas, Faith Geer

synopsis:
In 1985 New York City, Bud Fox (Charlie Sheen), a junior stockbroker at Jackson Steinem & Co., is desperate to get to the top. Harry Lynch (James Karen) is Bud's supervisor who wants Bud to stick to companies that create valuable products in the real world and to take a long term view to wealth creation. Bud wants to become involved with his hero, the corporate raider Gordon Gekko (Michael Douglas), a ruthless and legendary Wall Street player, whose values could not conflict more with those of Bud's father Carl (Martin Sheen), a blue-collar maintenance foreman at Bluestar Airlines and president of Bluestar's machinists' union, who believes success is achieved through work and actually providing something of value, not speculating on the goods and services of others. Bud meets with his father, Carl, at a local bar after work for some drinks where Carl tells Bud that he always wanted Bud to be a doctor or a lawyer or even join Bluestar, where Carl believed that Bud would have made supervisor by now instead of a junior stockbroker, which is what Bud is currently. Bud says that once he has his clients, he can make more money in a year than he would in five years at the airline. Carl is livid that Bud made $50,000 last year and still cannot pay off his student loans. Bud counters that New York City is an expensive place to live. Bud says he has 40% in taxes, $15,000 in rent, utilities, bills, parking, car loan and so on. Carl says he made $47,000 last year, which was enough to feed his entire family, but Bud says that it is Queens. Bud wants to live in Manhattan where his workplace and all of the action is. After calling Gekko's office 59 days in a row trying to land an appointment, Bud visits Gekko on his birthday with a box of Gekko's favorite, contraband Cuban cigars. Impressed at his persistence, Gekko grants Bud an interview. Bud pitches him stocks, but Gekko is unimpressed. Realizing that Gekko may not do business with him, a desperate Bud provides him with some inside information about Bluestar, which Bud learned in a casual conversation from his father the previous day about the FDA about to clear Bluestar of any negligence in a civil lawsuit by a few of their employees. Gekko tells him he will think about it. A dejected Bud returns to his office where Gekko places an order for Bluestar stock and becomes one of Bud's clients. After making a considerable amount of money from the Bluestar tip, Gekko gives Bud some capital to manage, but the other stocks Bud selects by honest research and advice from respected senior broker Lou Mannheim (Hal Holbrook) lose money. Instead, Gekko takes Bud under his wing but compels him to unearth new information by any means necessary. One of his first assignments is to spy on British corporate raider Sir Lawrence Wildman (Terence Stamp) and discern the Brit's next move. After following Wildman around New York all day, Bud figures out that that Wildman is making a bid for a steel company. Through Bud's spying, Gekko makes big money, and Wildman is forced to buy Gekko's shares off him to complete his takeover. Bud becomes wealthy, enjoying Gekko's promised perks, including a penthouse on Manhattan's Upper East Side and a trophy blonde girlfriend, interior decorator Darien (Daryl Hannah). Bud is promoted as a result of the large commission fees he is bringing in from Gekko's trading and is given a corner office with a view. He continues to maximize insider information and uses friends as straw buyers to get rich. Unknown to Bud, several of his trades attract the attention of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Bud pitches a new idea to Gekko, buy Bluestar Airlines and expand the company, with Bud as president, using savings achieved by union concessions and the over-funded pension plan. Even though Bud is unable to persuade his father to support him and Gekko, he is able to get the unions to push for the deal. Things change when Bud learns that Gekko, in fact, plans to dissolve the company and sell off Bluestar's assets in order to access cash in the company's over-funded pension plan, leaving Carl and the entire Bluestar staff unemployed. Although this would leave Bud very rich, he is angered by Gekko's deceit and racked with the guilt of being an accessory to Bluestar's destruction, especially after his father suffers a heart attack. Bud chooses his father over his mentor and resolves to disrupt Gekko's plans. He angrily breaks up with Darien, who refuses to plot against Gekko, her former lover and the architect of her career. Bud and the union presidents secretly meet with Wildman and arrange for him to buy the stock and a controlling interest in Bluestar, at a significant discount, on the condition that he saves the company. Bud then devises a plan to leak news of Gekko's takeover to drive the price up. This forces Gekko to buy the stock at a higher price, as he tries to secure a controlling interest. Bud then convinces the unions to pull their support, ending any prospect of Gekko completing the takeover, and causing the price to plummet. This forces Gekko to offload his stock at a considerable loss. When Gekko learns on the evening news that Wildman is buying Bluestar, he realizes Bud has engineered the entire scheme. Bud triumphantly returns to work at Jackson Steinem the following day, only to be arrested by the SEC, who had been tracking Bud's insider trading. Later, Bud confronts Gekko in Central Park on a rainy day. Gekko punches Bud several times, berating him for his role with Bluestar, and accuses him of ingratitude for several of their illicit trades. Later, it is revealed that Bud was wearing a wire to record his encounter with Gekko for the authorities, who suggest he may get a lighter sentence in exchange for providing evidence against Gekko. Later in the final scene, Bud's parents drive him down FDR Drive towards the New York County Courthouse, telling Bud he "did the right thing" by cooperating with the government and paying back his illicit earnings, and urging him to accept Wildman's offer of a job at Bluestar once he has completed his prison sentence. After suggesting Bud "create, instead of living off the buying and selling of others", Carl drops Bud off at the courthouse, where he ascends the steps, ready to face justice for his crimes.