movieId: 5975
title: War and Peace
year: 1956
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0049934/
ratingValue: 
directors: King Vidor
actors: Audrey Hepburn, Henry Fonda, Mel Ferrer, Vittorio Gassman, Herbert Lom, Oscar Homolka, Anita Ekberg, Helmut Dantine, Tullio Carminati, Barry Jones

synopsis:
In 1805, most of Europe is torn apart by Napoleon Bonaparte's (Herbert Lom) drive to conquer more and more territory. Only Russia stood in his way. In Moscow, many young men have joined the army, including Nicholas Rostov (Jeremy Brett), the son of Count Ilya Rostov and his wife Nataly, and the brother of young Petya (Seán Barrett) and the flighty but devoted Natasha (Audrey Hepburn). The Rostovs' (Count Mikhail Rostov (Barry Jones) & Countess Natalya Rostova (Lea Seidl)) friend Count Pierre Bezukhov (Henry Fonda), the illegitimate son of the ailing, wealthy Count Bezukhov, has recently returned from Paris and believes that Napoleon is a "cleansing force" who can establish equality and liberty. Despite his pacifism, Pierre wishes Nicholas well and then visits his friend, army officer Fedor Dolokhov (Helmut Dantine), a notorious rake. There, the comrades indulge in drinking games (Drinking a bottle of rum, balancing self on the ledge of a window) but are interrupted by Prince Andrei Bolkonsky (Mel Ferrer), an officer of much finer character than Dolokhov. Andrei informs Pierre that his estranged father, who is near death, is calling for him. Pierre goes to his father's mansion, where various relatives snub him. Their derision changes to hypocritical concern, however, after the old count dies and it is discovered that he has accepted Pierre as legitimate and named him his sole heir. The scheming Hélène Kuragina (Anita Ekberg) immediately sets her sights on Pierre and soon he falls in love with her, while her father, Prince Vasily Kuragin (Tullio Carminati), insinuates himself as the administrator of Pierre's vast estates. One day, Pierre runs into Andrei in the country as Andrei is escorting his pregnant wife Lise (Milly Vitale) to his father's house. Andrei, who feels trapped by the clinging Lise, had earlier advised Pierre never to marry, and now Pierre refuses to accept his warnings and wants to marry Helene..
Pierre meets Natasha in Moscow, where she is spending time with Petya. Nicholas is serving under Vasily "Vas'ka" Denisov (Patrick Crean) and writes about him often. Natasha learns that Pierre is dating Helene, who is his cousin and intends to marry her. Natasha is heartbroken as she had feelings for Pierre.
After Andrei takes Lise to live with his sister Mary (Anna Maria Ferrero) and gruff father, Prince Nicholas Bolkonsky (Wilfrid Lawson), he leaves for the front (Nicholas has warned Andrei that he comes from a long line of military leaders and wants him to distinguish the family name in battle) and is made an adjutant to the commander of the army, Field Marshal Mikhail Kutuzov (Oskar Homolka). Kutuzov is inept and delays making crucial decisions even in light of known enemy movements. But Kutuzov tells Andrei that his delays are tactical and losing a few battles doesn't mean that he will lose the war. At the Battle of Austerlitz, Andrei attempts to rally the retreating men by grabbing their banner and rushing the enemy, but he is wounded and left for dead. While surveying the battlefield, Napoleon comes across Andrei and, admiring his courage, orders that he be tended to by his personal physician. In Moscow, when Pierre learns that the Russians are suing for peace, Hélène persuades him to return to the country alone so that she can spend the season in the city, welcoming the soldiers. Nicholas comes home safely, much to the delight of Natasha. Meanwhile, Andrei returns to his family, just as Lise goes into labor. Although their son Kolya survives, Lise dies after giving birth, and the grieving Andrei blames himself for not offering her enough comfort and love.
As time passes, Hélène begins a flirtation with Dolokhov, and when Pierre learns of the rumors about them, he insults Dolokhov and accepts his challenge of a duel. Although Pierre is woefully unskilled with firearms, he manages to shoot and wound Dolokhov, while the soldier's shot goes wide and Pierre is unharmed. Infuriated that he was provoked into acting in such an uncivilized manner, Pierre separates from Helene and agrees to accompany the Rostovs to their country estate. One day, while they are hunting, they meet Andrei, who is enchanted by Natasha. Andrei is still in mourning and Pierre encourages him to find happiness in his life. Later, Andrei dances with Natasha when she attends her first ball and realizes that he wants to marry her. Prince Bolkonsky urges Andrei to wait a year, as Natasha is so young and the Rostovs are not their social equals, but promises to consent if Andrei still wishes to marry her then.
With Natasha's promise to wait for him, Andrei then joins the mission to Prussia, where Czar Alexander and Napoleon sign a peace treaty in June 1807. While Andrei is gone, however, Natasha (who was rebuffed by Mary when Natasha went to see Andrei's father at his estate. This convinced her that the 1 yr wait is just a ruse to not marry her) is seduced by Anatole Kuragin (Vittorio Gassman), Helene's brother, who is as cold-Hearted and debauched as his sister. Even though he is secretly married, Anatole persuades Natasha to elope with him, but their plans are foiled by Natasha's cousin Sonya (May Britt) and Pierre, who threatens Anatole with exposure of his marriage if he ruins Natasha's reputation. Pierre's threats come too late, however, and soon all of Moscow is gossiping about Natasha, who falls ill after Andrei ends their relationship.
After several months, she begs Pierre to convey her regret to Andrei, and Pierre, who is in love with her, assures her that she is blameless, and that if he were free, he would ask for her hand. In 1812, Napoleon crosses the River Neman into Russia with 200,000 men, despite the peace treaty. Faced with the superiority of the French Army, Kutuzov orders his men to retreat, and as they fall back, the soldiers and peasants set fire to the countryside so that the French will be without provisions. Although his officers protest his strategy, Kutuzov insists that the only way to save Russia is by letting the French wear themselves out. Soon the city of Smolensk is abandoned and Kutuzov decides to make a stand at Borodino. Determined to see war firsthand, to decide if his hatred of it is valid, Pierre travels to Borodino, where he finds Andrei's camp on the eve of the battle. Although Pierre urges Andrei to forgive Natasha, Andrei states that he cannot. The next morning, Pierre watches with mounting horror as the fighting rages around him and the French slaughter the Russians (The Russian cannons beat back french infantry, when Napoleon orders a cavalry attack just as the Russins run out of ammo for their cannons and their reserves are blown off). Finally realizing that his hero is just a tyrant, Pierre damns Napoleon. Kutuzov then decides to fall back beyond Moscow (he wants French armies to bleed to death), leaving the ancient capital city to the French. In Moscow, the Rostovs are among the many families preparing to flee when some wounded Russian soldiers arrive, hoping to be billeted at their home after their departure. Natasha insists that the men cannot be left behind to be captured, however, and they are loaded into the Rostov wagons (leaving their expensive furniture behind) and taken to a distant village. Napoleon is infuriated to learn that the government has fled, leaving no one behind to surrender to him. He sets the city on fire, which can be seen for miles.
Although Pierre lies in wait one day, hoping to assassinate the French emperor, he cannot do it and is taken prisoner. Meanwhile, Natasha has learned that Andrei is among the wounded in their care and reunites with him. While Pierre is befriended by a fellow prisoner, the peasant Platon (John Mills). the Rostovs take Andrei to a monastery to convalesce. Andrei's wounds prove fatal, however, and he dies just after Mary and Kolya arrive to bid him farewell. Napoleon realizes that he has been outmaneuvered by Kutuzov (Food stocks are low and ammunition is being stolen or being sabotaged by resistance forces), and, fearing being trapped in Russia during the winter, orders his men to retreat. The prisoners, including Pierre and Platon, are forced to accompany the soldiers during their 2,000-mile march, and many of them die. The Russian soldiers follow behind the French, allowing them little rest and picking off stragglers. Petya, who has joined the army against his parents' wishes, is sent with a dispatch to Dolokhov, ordering his platoon to join the main regiment. Eager for one last fight, Dolokhov insists on attacking the French the next morning and allows Petya to accompany him. Petya is killed during the engagement, and although Pierre is freed, he is too overcome by the boy's death to rejoice. Dolokhov informs Pierre that Helene has died, and later, joins the other Russian soldiers as they attack the French, who are fleeing back across the Niemen. The Rostovs return to Moscow and find their mansion a burned-out shell, with only one wing remaining intact. Natasha rallies her family to make the best of what they have, however, and as the others settle in, Natasha sadly remembers happier times. She then sees Pierre in the doorway and rushes to embrace him. Telling him that he is like their house, which suffers and shows its wounds but still stands, Natasha kisses Pierre, and they walk together in the garden.