movieId: 3809
title: What About Bob?
year: 1991
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0103241/
ratingValue: 
directors: Frank Oz
actors: Bill Murray, Richard Dreyfuss, Julie Hagerty, Charlie Korsmo, Kathryn Erbe, Tom Aldredge, Susan Willis, Roger Bowen, Fran Brill, Brian Reddy

synopsis:
In New York City, neurotic and multi-phobic Bob Wiley spends his life in a near-constant state of distress. Doctor Leo Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss), an egotistical psychiatrist in New York City, is going to appear on a "Good Morning America" telecast in which he plans to brag about Baby Steps, his book about emotional disorder treatments for mental patients and their phobias. The interview is scheduled in a week when Leo is supposed to be at Lake Winnipesaukee for his annual family vacation.
Meanwhile, Bob Wiley (Bill Murray) is a recluse who is so afraid to leave his own apartment that he has to talk himself out the door. Exasperated by Bob's high-maintenance needs, his therapist closes his practice and refers Bob to the egotistical and controlling Dr. Leo Marvin. The therapist flatters Leo and says that there could be a Nobel Prize in it for him, if he can solve for Bob.
Marvin believes his new therapy book, Baby Steps will make him famous. Bob doesn't wait for Leo to call him and sets up an appointment instead at Leo's office. Leo gifts Bob a copy of Baby Steps and makes an appointment to see him in a month following the Marvin family's vacation. Leo finds Bob extremely annoying. When Leo accompanies his wife Fay (Julie Hagerty), his daughter Anna (Kathryn Erbe), and his son Sigmund "Siggy" Marvin (Charlie Korsmo) to a peaceful New Hampshire lakeside cottage for a month-long vacation, Leo thinks he's been freed from Bob. Leo expects to mesmerize his family with his prowess as a brilliant husband and remarkable father who knows all there is to know about instructing his wife and raising his kids. But Bob isn't going to let Leo enjoy a quiet summer by the lake. By cleverly tricking the telephone operator at the doctor's exchange, Bob discovers the whereabouts of Leo and his family.
Unable to cope without regular reassurance, Bob repeatedly calls Leo's telephone exchange in failed attempts to deduce where he is staying. Bob then visits the exchange while posing as a detective investigating Bob's suicide and learns that the Marvins are at Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire. Despite his phobia about traveling alone, Bob somehow manages to talk himself onto a bus, and he arrives in New Hampshire. Leo's vacation comes to a screeching halt the moment he sees Bob. With his witty personality and good sense of humor, Bob quickly becomes an annoyance to Leo.
Leo agrees to call Bob at a local coffee shop if he then returns home. Out of spite, the shop owners, the Guttmans, whom Leo outbid for their dream lake house, take Bob directly to Leo. Bob is introduced to Leo's wife Fay, their teenage daughter Anna, and young son Siggy, who are charmed by his eccentric personality, much to the uptight Leo's chagrin. Eager to get rid of Bob, Leo tells him to return to the city and take a vacation from his problems. Having never been on vacation, Bob takes the advice literally, remaining in Lake Winnipesaukee. Fearing that he's losing his family to Bob, Leo frantically tries to find a way to make Bob go back to New York, and it's not as easy as Leo had hoped.
Bob unintentionally bonds with Leo's family: he faces his fear of sailing after Anna ties him to a boat's mast, inadvertently gives Siggy the confidence to dive into the lake, which Leo had failed to instill for years, and overcomes his Germophobia. After Leo pushes Bob into the lake, Fay forces him to apologize and invites Bob to dinner. Oblivious to Leo's hostility, Bob accepts as he believes the events are part of Leo's radical therapy techniques. A thunderstorm forces Bob to spend the night, but Leo demands that he leave the following morning before Good Morning America arrives to interview him about Baby Steps. The TV crew arrives early and, despite Leo's reluctance, features Bob in the interview as an example of his book's success. Leo humiliates himself during the interview by giving stilted and nervous responses while Bob speaks highly of the Marvins and the book, unwittingly stealing the spotlight. Infuriated, Leo attempts to have Bob institutionalized, but he quickly befriends the hospital staff, who are convinced he is sane. Leo then abandons Bob in a remote location, but Bob hitches a ride back to the lake house while various mishaps delay Leo. A disheveled Leo returns after nightfall but is happily surprised by a crowd awaiting him for his birthday, including his sister Lily. When Bob appears and puts his arm around Lily, Leo snaps and tackles him. Leo is sedated and his family reluctantly asks Bob to leave due to Leo's seemingly irrational anger towards him. Leo finds himself stepping outside the law to try to get Bob to stay away from Fay, Anna, and Siggy -- Leo slowly goes berserk, and makes plans to kill Bob. A manic Leo sneaks out and steals a large amount of explosives from the general store. He abducts Bob, straps him to the explosives, and abandons him in the woods, dubbing the experience "death therapy". Believing the explosives are a metaphor for his problems, Bob frees himself of his restraints and remaining fears. Bob uses Leo's book technique to escape & comes back to Leo's house to celebrate his Birthday. He still thinks Leo is trying to cure him. He reunites with the Marvins and praises Leo for curing him.
Leo worriedly inquires about the whereabouts of the explosives, which Bob states he stored under the lake house. The house explodes, to the observing Guttmans' delight; shocked, Leo is rendered catatonic and institutionalized. Leo is paralyzed with anger & is committed to an asylum & only comes back at the mental pain & anguish when Bob marries his sister Lily (Fran Brill). Leo snaps out of his catatonic state and screams, "No!", but the sentiment is lost in the family's excitement at his recovery. A closing text reveals that Bob went back to school and became a psychologist, then wrote a best-selling book titled Death Therapy, for which Leo is suing him for the rights.