movieId: 8531
title: White Chicks
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0381707/
ratingValue: 
directors: Keenen Ivory Wayans
actors: Shawn Wayans, Marlon Wayans, Jaime King, Frankie Faison, Lochlyn Munro, John Heard, Busy Philipps, Terry Crews, Brittany Daniel, Eddie Velez

synopsis:
In NYC, FBI agents Marcus Anthony II (Marlon Wayans) and Kevin Copeland (Shawn Wayans) inadvertently ruin a drug bust. Marcus and Kevin are great at disguises. But they end up arresting an ice cream delivery guy, instead of the drug runners, who manage to escape.
Marcus is married to Gina, who is hyper paranoid and believes that he is cheating on her. Their boss, Chief Elliott Gordon (Frankie Faison), offers them a reprieve if they escort sisters Brittany (Maitland Ward) and Tiffany Wilson (Anne Dudek) safely to a weekend-long fashion event in the Hamptons. The sisters are the rich, shallow socialite daughters of Wilson Cruiseliners CEO Andrew Wilson, whom the police suspect will become the next victims in a string of high-profile kidnappings.
Wilson believes that the kidnapping are a result of the fallout with his business partner Ted Butron. Ted went to prison and the dates of the kidnapping coincide with Ted's release from prison. On the drive, the sisters' dog Baby leaps out of the car window, causing Kevin to lose control of the car which crashes. The sisters suffer minor facial cuts. With the sisters refusing to be seen with cut faces, Kevin sends them into hiding as they threatened to call their boss and complain about them. He has a makeup expert friend create prosthetic disguises so he and Marcus can replace them. Kevin and Marcus were forced into this as Gordon had warned to fire them if they messed up again. Kevin as Brittany and Marcus as Tiffany meet the sisters' three best friends - Lisa Anderson (Jennifer Carpenter), Karen Googlestein (Busy Philipps), and Tori Wilson (Jessica Cauffiel) - and their rivals: the Vandergeld sisters, Heather (Jaime King) and Megan (Brittany Daniel). Unbeknownst to Kevin and Marcus, they are being watched by colleagues, Vincent Gomez (Eddie Velez) and Jake Harper (Lochlyn Munro), and Gordon, who are undercover posing as hotel staff.
Heather and Megan's father Warren Vandergeld (John Heard) is the organizer of the event. At the hotel, pro basketball player Latrell Spencer (Terry Crews) is attracted to Marcus/Tiffany, and Kevin sets his sights on New York One News reporter, Denise Porter (Rochelle Aytes).
Marcus is lactose intolerant and eats cheese at the events and ends up defecating really loudly in the bathroom that all the girlfriends hear.
Gina keeps calling Marcus and has a suspicion that he is always surrounded by girls and is cheating on her. The girls go dress shopping where Kevin finds that Lisa has major insecurities about her body and self image, while Marcus is forced into a tiny dress which he ends up ripping apart as soon as he tries to breathe. At the Vandergelds' annual charity auction, Latrell wins a dinner date at a restaurant with Marcus/Tiffany. Latrell bids $50,000 for Marcus/Tiffany enraging Heather as her boyfriend Heath just bid $20,000 on her. Marcus/Tiffany and Kevin/Britanny bond with their girls over a slumber party. While Latrell takes Marcus/Tiffany to a restaurant, Kevin, believing Denise likes rich men, pretends to be Latrell and takes Latrell's car to drive Denise to Latrell's house. Marcus/Tiffany acts all disgusting at the restaurant to put off Latrell, but nothing can deter him. While Kevin pretended to be a valet at the restaurant to get access to Latrell's car keys.
With Denise, Kevin hears about criminal Ted Burton turning the tables on Heather and Megan's father, Warren. With Kevin becoming romantically involved with Denise and Marcus/Tiffany unsuccessfully trying to reject Latrell, their combined antics put them under Gomez and Harper's suspicion. At a nightclub, after winning a dance-off against the Vandergelds, Kevin and Marcus learn from a drunken Karen that Warren is penniless and has been taking loans from her father, meaning that Warren is the mastermind behind the kidnappings.
Meanwhile, Gina finds out that Marcus shopped for a $4000 dress in the Hamptons on his credit card and is alarmed. The next day, the real Brittany and Tiffany arrive at the hotel and discover they are being impersonated. They arrive in the Hamptons, intent on exposing their "clones", as does Marcus' wife, Gina (Faune A. Chambers), assuming that he is cheating on her. Realizing the Wilsons are being impersonated by men, Gomez and Harper aim to expose them, but accidentally strip down the real Brittany and Tiffany in front of Gordon, resulting in Harper getting punched in the face. After Gomez and Harper are suspended, a furious Gordon fires Kevin and Marcus. Having lost both his job and possibly Gina, Marcus scolds Kevin for always dragging him into trouble. Later, Kevin and Marcus discover that Warren had embezzled money through his charity. Marcus convinces Kevin to not tell Gordon, to redeem themselves with Gomez and Harper's help. Again, posing as the Wilsons, they are chosen for the final fashion show. The Vandergelds are furious the Copelands/Wilsons have replaced them on the catwalk, but the real Brittany and Tiffany also perform in the event. Karen rejects the callous Heath (John Reardon), and Marcus punches him in the face. During the show, the Vandergeld sisters try to sabotage their "rivals", but end up being humiliated by Karen, Lisa, and Tori. The real Brittany and Tiffany appear and expose Kevin and Marcus, causing mass confusion. Warren begins the kidnapping, but incorrectly captures Marcus/Tiffany and Brittany. This begins a fight between the brothers and Heath and Russ (Steven Grayhm), accomplices in the kidnappings. Warren soon captures the real sisters and explains his financial troubles to his wife and daughters, unaware that his confession is being filmed. In the ensuing scuffle, Kevin is nearly shot trying to protect Denise, Latrell is shot trying to protect Marcus/Tiffany, and Kevin shoots Warren in the shoulder. Marcus and Kevin capture Warren, while Gomez and Harper apprehend Heath and Russ. Afterward, their true identities are revealed, and Latrell is dismayed that Marcus is not white, not that he is a man. Warren, Heath, and Russ are arrested, while Gordon reinstates the brothers, Gomez, and Harper. Marcus clears things with Gina, Kevin and Denise begin a relationship, and Latrell wins over the real Brittany and Tiffany. Tori, Lisa, and Karen admit they liked Brittany and Tiffany a lot more when Marcus and Kevin were them, and the five agree to remain friends and go shopping together.