movieId: 86
title: White Squall
year: 1996
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118158/
ratingValue: 
directors: Ridley Scott
actors: Jeff Bridges, Caroline Goodall, John Savage, Scott Wolf, Jeremy Sisto, Ryan Phillippe, David Lascher, Eric Michael Cole, Jason Marsden, David Selby

synopsis:
Warning: Spoilers The film is based on the fate of the brigantine Albatross, which sank May 2, 1961, allegedly because of a white squall. The film relates the ill-fated school sailing trip led by Dr. Christopher B. Sheldon (Jeff Bridges), whom the boys call "Skipper". He is tough and teaches them discipline. He forms a close connection with well-off Chuck Gieg (Scott Wolf), troubled rich kid Frank Beaumont (Jeremy Sisto), shy Gil Martin (Ryan Phillippe) and bad boy Dean Preston (Eric Michael Cole). On the first days, it is discovered that Gil suffers from acrophobia when he fails to aid the choking Chuck who becomes entangled after slipping from a mast. He is instead saved by Skipper Sheldon while Gil is ordered to climb the ropes, something he ultimately cannot do, and is therefore assigned limited duty on board. Frank's snobby attitude causes him to bump heads with most of the boys. Gil opens up to Chuck about his troubled home life one night in their bunks, which Frank listens to and identifies with as well. After many misadventures on land and on the boat, the boys begin to take Skipper's teachings seriously and act like real shipmates, forming stronger bonds. Eventually, the brigantine goes into shore and the boys take leave on land. Frank's wealthy father and mother give him a surprise visit while the crew is in port. Frank is upset by the poor timing of the visit, as he becomes separated from the boys and their festivities when his overbearing parents require him to go out to a steak dinner with them. The father and son end up in a fist fight and become further estranged. Frank drinks and goes to the party, only to be escorted out by Chuck, Gil and Dean. After a night of festivities, the crew set out to sea again on the next day. When the brigantine encounters a school of dolphins, Frank, still angry at his father, vents his fury by shooting one of the dolphins with a harpoon. Skipper demands Frank at least put the animal out of its misery, but he can't bring himself to, so Skipper kills it, then tells Frank he's been expelled from the program and puts him ashore at the next port. The day he leaves, Frank apologizes to Skipper for the incident on the boat and is given a farewell by Gil, who gets the courage to climb up the ropes to ring the bell for Frank, which symbolizes 'Where we go one, we go all.' Soon after, while at sea, the brigantine encounters a freakish white squall storm. The vessel is battered by the seas, and the boys try to use what the Skipper has taught them in order to survive the horrific ordeal. Most of them succeed in abandoning the vessel, but Gil, Dean, Skipper's wife Alice, and the cook Girard Pascal all drown. When the survivors are rescued and reach land, Skipper is put on trial, with Frank's powerful parents leading the call for his license to be revoked. Eventually, Skipper refuses to allow anyone else to be blamed for the disaster, and accepts responsibility, but his former students all stand up for him. Frank turns against his bullying parents to support the Skipper, as all of the boys embrace him. The end credits explain that in reality six people died in total (four students) and dedicates the film to them.