movieId: 8866
title: Wimbledon
year: 2004
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0360201/
ratingValue: 
directors: Richard Loncraine
actors: Kirsten Dunst, Paul Bettany, Sam Neill, Jon Favreau, Bernard Hill, Eleanor Bron, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, Austin Nichols, Robert Lindsay, James McAvoy

synopsis:
Peter Colt (Paul Bettany), an English professional Tennis Player in his thirties (he is 32 years old) whose ranking has slipped from 11th to 119th in the world, considers he never really had to fight for anything. His wealthy but not close family (including brother Carl (James McAvoy), father Edward (Bernard Hill) and mother Augusta (Eleanor Bron)) easily put him through studies and allowed him to pursue his Tennis ambitions.
Peter bravely exchanges jokes with his German sparring partner Dieter Prohl (Nikolaj Coster-Waldau), who is in a similar position.
For a tennis player, winning a Grand Slam title is the pinnacle of their sporting career. Though, he earns a wild-card spot to the Wimbledon tournament, but internally feels that it's time to admit he's getting too old to compete with fitter coming men (or boys) and intends, after this last Wimbledon, to take a job with the prestigious tennis club instead. The job offered to him by club manager Ian Frazier (Robert Lindsay). However, as Wimbledon begins, by accident, he bumps into Lizzie Bradbury (Kirsten Dunst), the American rising star of female tennis, falls in love with her and finds her interest in him changes his entire perception, even gives him the strength to win again. Peter finds that his game gets better as he spends more time with Lizzie. Meanwhile, Lizzie comes with a reputation of arguing with the chair umpires as a tactic to disrupt the game. Lizzie invites Peter up to her room, and they have sex as Lizzie believes that this can help one relax and help with their game. After an unexpected win in the first round, Peter is about to lose his second match (against an opponent who had won the French Open previously) but turns it around when he hears Lizzie cheering for him in the crowd. In his third match, he unexpectedly comes up against his training partner and best friend, Dieter Prohl. Peter beats Dieter, who comments that Peter has developed a 'killer instinct', the ability to win the match no matter the cost or the method. Peter's unexpected success makes him a sensation in Britain, as many place their hopes on either him or his next competitor, Tom Cavendish, to deliver a British win at Wimbledon.
Meanwhile, Carl had been betting against Peter on every match and kept losing. Carl is mystified as Peter has always come through for him previously. Ron (Jon Favreau) is Peter's agent who asks him to capitalize on his fame before his next match with Tom. As their love grows, Peter's game becomes better and better, but her game starts worsening as she spends too much time with Peter, ignoring her practice and tiredness.
However, her overprotective father-manager Dennis Bradbury (Sam Neill) proves determined to nip their relationship in the bud, believing it detrimental to her career. At a reception for the Wimbledon players at the London Eye, Lizzie is approached by an old flame, arrogant American star and world number 1 Jake Hammond. Hammond deduces that Peter and Lizzie are seeing each other when Peter defends her. When Hammond insults Lizzie, Peter punches him and the couple run away to Peter's flat in Brighton.
They spend the entire day together and their picture was taken by Carl, who sold it to the media to make good on his betting losses and to put more against Peter in his upcoming game.
That next day, Dennis comes to Peter's apartment and yells at him for spoiling his daughter's game. She overhears this and decides to leave him. Lizzie says that they can be together after the tournament. Both of them play several games with different opponents and win. Peter faces off against Tom Cavendish and beats him when Cavendish sprains his ankle, demonstrating his ability to go all the way.
But without Lizzie's support, Peter's confidence and concentration start to shake. Lizzie enters into semi-final while Peter also manages to reach semi-final but with difficulty. The night before their semi-final games, Peter sneaks into Lizzie's hotel room and persuades her to have sex. Initially, she denies as she requires more rest and sleep for her semi-final game next morning, but later on agrees to. Next day, he performs quite well and wins his semi-final match in straight sets, whilst Lizzie loses her match due to tiredness for lack of sleep and losing her focus after last night together with Peter. Lizzie gets upset and breaks their relation while accusing his madness and last night greed for sex as cause for loss of her match, her dreams and perhaps her career too. She leaves before he can say or explain anything and decides to immediately return to USA. Peter has to play the final match against Jake Hammond (Austin Nichols), an arrogant American star who Peter has already had an argument with involving Lizzie but finds himself out classed. At the airport, Lizzie watches an interview on TV in which Peter apologizes to her and declares his love for her openly. She drops her idea to go home and comes back to Wimbledon. Before Lizzie reaches the stadium, Peter has already lost two sets and is running behind in the third one due to the fast and forceful tricky serves by Jake. He has lost all of his focus due to breakup with Lizzie. Before the game is interrupted by rain, his back muscles get stressed, and he has started thinking about quitting the game rather than face a sure defeat. Suddenly, Lizzie comes to him in the dressing room and tells him that she has forgiven him and prepares him to play and face the fate rather than quit. She tells him the secret about Jake's tricky serves. With Lizzie cheering him on, Peter makes a recovery in the game and wins the title (3-6, 2-6, 6-4, 7-6 {7-5}, 6-4) with a diving volley. After the game he retires. He and Lizzie get married, and with his support, Lizzie goes on to win the U.S. Open and Wimbledon twice, ultimately achieving her dreams. In the last scene, Peter is with their youngest child, a boy, watching Lizzie and their eldest child, a girl, playing tennis together on a neighborhood court in New York City.