movieId: 25856
title: Wuthering Heights
year: 1939
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0032145/
ratingValue: 
directors: William Wyler
actors: Merle Oberon, Laurence Olivier, David Niven, Flora Robson, Donald Crisp, Geraldine Fitzgerald, Hugh Williams, Leo G. Carroll, Miles Mander, Cecil Kellaway

synopsis:
In rural England in the year 1841, Mr. Lockwood (Miles Mander) the new tenant of Thrushcross Grange, is caught in a snowstorm and must spend the night at Wuthering Heights, the home of Mr. Heathcliff (Laurence Olivier) who is his landlord. The inside of the house is bleak and desolate; Heathcliff and his wife Isabella (Geraldine Fitzgerald) are both unfriendly, as is the handyman Joseph (Leo G. Carroll). Only the housekeeper Ellen Dean (Flora Robson) is friendly. In his dusty room, Lockwood hears a female voice call "Heathcliff!" from outside. He reaches out his window and feels the icy hand of a ghostly apparition. He informs Heathcliff of his experience. The brute runs out and into the storm. Ellen tells Lockwook that it was Cathy who called. She tells Lockwood the history of Wuthering Heights. 40 years earlier in 1801, Wuthering Heights was a happy manor. One day, the owner Mr. Earnshaw (Cecil Kellaway) returned from a business trip to Liverpool to his young daughter Cathy (Sarita Wooton) and young son Hindley. He brought with him a young dirty gypsy boy he found living in the streets. He named the boy Heathcliff. Hindley didn't like Heathcliff and bullied him all the time, but Cathy and Heathcliff loved each other. They would go to Peniston Crag, where they had a make-believe castle and their unhappiness would fade away. Heathcliff would play-act as king, and Cathy would play-act as queen. Some time later, Mr. Earnshaw died from an illness and Hindley became lord of the manor. He threw Heathcliff out of the house and made him the stable boy to take care of the horses. Years passed and the children grew into adulthood. The adult Hindley (Hugh Williams) became a slovenly drunk. He often beat Heathcliff without provocation. Heathcliff and Cathy (Merle Oberon) still found happiness at their castle. However, Cathy wanted to live in high society like their neighbors the Lintons of Thrushcross Grange. Edgar Linton (David Niven) began paying her visits. Heathcliff became angry at Cathy for seeing Linton, but Cathy could not help herself. Although she told Heathcliff that she would love only him, she accepted Linton's attentions. When Heathcliff misunderstood some things Cathy was telling Ellen about him, he rode off in a storm. Cathy knew that he wouldn't come back. She then fell into a deep depression. Eventually, Cathy married Linton. Heathcliff returned some time later. During his absence he had become exceedingly wealthy. He bought up all of Hindley's gambling debts and took over Wuthering Heights. He let Hindley live in the house just to torment him. Cathy tried to be friendly and polite to Heathcliff, but he had become cold-hearted and conniving from the sudden wealth and his personal grudge against her for abandoning him. Linton's sister Isabella fell in love with Heathcliff and although he detested her, he married her just to hurt Cathy, which he succeeded in doing. Linton realized then that Cathy still loved Heathcliff. Heathcliff began to make Isabella's life miserable. She wished Cathy would did so she could start living and her wish was coming true; Cathy had willed herself near death. Heathcliff stole into Cathy's bedroom at Thurshcross Grange. They expressed the undying love for each other. She said that she was his and had never been anyone else's. He carried her to the window to look at Peniston Crag for the last time. She said she'd wait for him there. She then collapsed and died. He told her that she must haunt him for the rest of his life, even if it drove him mad. In the present day, Ellen finishes her story. Dr. Kenneth (Donald Cripse) arrives for he had seen Heathcliff walking with a woman in the storm. He had followed them and found Heathcliff dead on Cathy's grave. Ellen says that the woman Heathcliff had been with was Cathy and quotes: "They've just begun to live." The final shot shows Heathcliff and Cahty walk towards their castle.