movieId: 2424
title: You've Got Mail
year: 1998
url: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0128853/
ratingValue: 
directors: Nora Ephron
actors: Tom Hanks, Meg Ryan, Greg Kinnear, Parker Posey, Jean Stapleton, Steve Zahn, Heather Burns, Dave Chappelle, Dabney Coleman, John Randolph

synopsis:
Kathleen Kelly (Meg Ryan) is involved with Frank Navasky (Greg Kinnear), a leftist postmodernist newspaper writer for the New York Observer who's always in search of an opportunity to root for the underdog.
While Frank is devoted to his typewriter, Kathleen prefers her laptop and logging into her AOL e-mail account. There, using the screen name 'Shopgirl', she reads an e-mail from "NY152", who she first met in a chat-room. As they have agreed not to share specifics about their personal lives, she knows nothing about him other than the name of his dog, Brinkley. NY152 is the screen name of Joe Fox (Tom Hanks). In her reading of the e-mail, she reveals the boundaries of the online relationship; no specifics, including no names, career or class information, or family connections. Joe belongs to the Fox family which runs Fox Books - a chain of "mega" bookstores similar to Borders or Barnes & Noble.
Joe is dating abrasive publisher Patricia Eden (Parker Posey). Kathleen, on the other hand, runs the independent bookstore The Shop Around The Corner, that her mother ran before her. The two then pass each other on their respective ways to work, where it is revealed that they frequent the same neighborhoods in upper west Manhattan. Joe arrives at work, overseeing the opening of a new Fox Books in New York with the help of his friend, branch manager Kevin (Dave Chappelle). Meanwhile, Kathleen and her three store assistants, George (Steve Zahn), Birdie (Jean Stapleton), and Christina (Heather Burns) open up shop for the day. Kathleen's assistants worry that the new Fox Books will hurt business, but Kathleen dismisses their concerns. Following a day on the town with his eleven-year-old aunt Annabel (Hallee Hirsh) and four-year-old brother Matthew (Jeffrey Scaperrotta) (the children of his frequently divorced grandfather and father, respectively), Joe enters Kathleen's store to let his younger relatives experience story-time.
Joe and Kathleen have a friendly conversation that reveals Kathleen's fears about the Fox Books store opening around the corner, shocking Joe. He introduces himself as "Joe. Just call me Joe," omitting his last name, and makes an abrupt exit with the children. However, at a publishing party later in the week, Joe and Kathleen meet again, both of them being in the New York book business, where Kathleen discovers Joe's true identity. She accuses him of deception and spying, while he belittles her store, earning each other's hostility. "Shopgirl" writes to "NY152" asking for business advice, and he urges her to fight back. Frank pens a column in support of The Shop Around the Corner that draws widespread attention, leading to talk show appearances, news coverage, and picketing outside Fox Books. Joe is aggravated by the negative publicity, but his father assures him everything will blow over once the new store opens. All the while, "NY152" and "Shopgirl" continue their courtship, to the point where "NY152" asks "Shopgirl" to meet. Too embarrassed to go alone, Joe brings Kevin along for moral support. He insists that "Shopgirl" may be the love of his life. Meanwhile Kevin, looking in a cafe window at the behest of Joe, discovers the true identity of "Shopgirl." When Joe discovers that it is actually Kathleen behind the name, he is dismayed to find that his pen pal is actually his professional nemesis. He initially walks away, then changes his mind and joins her at the table without revealing his online identity. They clash once again, and Kathleen cruelly insults him, causing Joe to leave in distress.
Joe leaves the cafe hurt; Kathleen returns home puzzled why NY152 might have stood her up. Later that night, he receives an email from "Shopgirl", sharing that she finally stood up to an unpleasant person but now feels terrible for doing so. After several attempts to make up a story and realizing that he couldn't lie to her, "NY152" apologizes for "what happened", and assures Kathleen that anything she said was likely deserved. Despite all efforts, The Shop Around the Corner slowly goes under. Kathleen makes the difficult decision to close. Later, she and Frank amicably end their relationship. Kathleen takes a break to figure out her next move, ultimately taking inspiration from her correspondence with "NY152" to write children's books.
Meanwhile, Joe realizes his own feelings for Kathleen and slowly builds a face-to-face relationship with her, still keeping his online identity a secret. In a somber moment Kathleen enters Fox Books to discover the true nature of the store is one of friendliness and relaxation, yet without the same dedication to children's books as her independent shop. Eventually, her employees move on to other jobs; as Christina goes job hunting, George gets a job at the children's department at a Fox Books store (Joe later compares George's knowledge of the contents of the department to a PhD) and Birdie, who is already wealthy from investments, retires. Allowing time for their electronic relationship to convalesce, Joe visits Kathleen while she is sick, and for the first time makes a favorable impression. Joe discovers that Kathleen has broken up with Frank, who has moved in with a talk show host (Jane Adams) who interviewed him. This was predated one week by Joe and his uptight girlfriend, Patricia (Parker Posey), who broke up in their apartment building while stuck in the elevator. Kathleen and Joe develop a tentative friendship that blossoms over the course of a few weeks, and they begin to spend more time with one another. During this time, Joe as "NY152" provides careful advice to Kathleen as "Shopgirl," gently encouraging her to explore her real-life relationship with Joe as himself. Right before she is to meet her online friend, Joe confesses his feelings, imploring her to forgive him for their past animosity. Kathleen becomes emotional, hinting that she feels the same way but cannot bring herself to forego her feelings for "NY152". Finally, "NY152" and "Shopgirl" agree to meet for the first time since "NY152" apparently stood her up. Upon arriving at the meeting place, she hears a man's voice calling for Brinkley and sees that "NY152" is, in fact, Joe Fox. Kathleen cries tears of joy and reveals that she hoped it would be him, and they share a kiss.